# ShEx Telecons

## Telecon 2018-08-02  Minutes

* Participants: Kat, Gregg, ericP, Harold, Lucas, Jeremie
* Regrets: Dimitris, Lars

Call in Zoom # https://zoom.us/j/441496948

* Chair: Kat
* Scribe: ericP

### Community updates
* ericP: DDI stuff mostly complete. includes:
* several Node modules related to UML, including support to ShEx-ify UML
* tool to inline used-once named shapes in a schema into nested shapes
* example nested shape: https://rawgit.com/ericprud/XMItoRDF/modular/site/DDI_4-DR0.2-nested-dynamic.html#ContactInformation

* ericP: Labra built a simple subset of `EXTENDS`: https://goo.gl/oFS5VM
* DDI model uses `EXTENDS` extensively.
* Harold: should have an implementation of `EXTENDS` soon as well.

### Discuss features to take on v2.1
* Publish a new version of ShEx with what we have already or add more features
* Discuss on changelog from ShEx 2.0

* Kat: [Dimitris] do we have enough for 2.1?

* ericP: Some useful features such as long comments. We should update the production for Node constraints. Currently, in ShEx, nested node constraints are not parallel with shape declarations. It wouldn't be that hard to make them more parallel, which would mean you could have semantic actions embedded in node constraints as well as constraints. It adds a couple of productions to the grammar.
* Harold: Listening to Dimitris, I believe there's no harm in non-breaking changes early and often. It will make us visibly active. Can do a 2.1.1 to include ericP's changes.
* ericP: understood, but wanted to make 2.1 fairly comprehensive syntactic update. PROPOSE: spend an hour with me on the grammar and see if you are persuaded.
* Harold: also need to persuade implementors and create tests, but happy to spend the hour.
* Gregg: implementation reports are easy to generate if folks run the tests and submit EARL. My impleemntation will remain behind.

* ericP: Jeremie it would be great to meet to discuss how to get your implementation ready for 2.1
* Harold: Would releasing 2.1 make our changes official?
* ericp: We can say that we made a decision that 2.next semantics are stable, and if we make any changes to the grammar, they will be strictly syntactic. Perhaps we can get another review out of Peter.

* Gregg: did we have a candidate release for 2.0?

* ericp: If we have a resolution that any changes in 2.next will be purely syntacic, we might better ger review.

**PROPOSE**: accept the 2.next semantics for 2.1 release; all further changes to 2.1 will limited to the grammar.

ericP: +1
Gregg: +1
Jérémie: +1
Kat:+1
Hsolbrig:+1

**RESOLVED**: accept the 2.next semantics for 2.1 release; all further changes to 2.1 will limited to the grammar.

**PROPOSE**: text describing changes from 2.1:

> The definition of the semantics has changed from 2.0 without requiring any changes to implementations or tests.

ericP: +1
kat: +1
Gregg: +1
Jérémie: +1
Hsolbrig: +1

**RESOLVED**: text describing changes from 2.1

* Hsolbrig: I'd like to watch over the publication of 2.1 so I can help next time (or document it in case the bus is really wide).

### Features for 2.next(.next)

https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/86

* Harold: want support for RDF lists in ShEx.
... you run into the collections idiom which requires a reasonable grasp of ShEx to manage lists.
... I end of with definitions lists by both type (list of X) and cardinality (0 or more, 1 or more).

* ericP: I had in mind to steal a bit of templating from C++ or Scala- we could attack this 2 ways: list w min count in shape declaration 
or we could use template-y syntax to say a list of these and foo of these and a bar of these. That would allow us to do lists, but I haven't persuaded myself that we would use it for anything but lists.
* Harold: if there are other uses for templates, it wouldn't preclude having a native function for lists.
... I always have to re-learn how they're constructed.
... worst case would be to do nothing.
... I don't care whether you have a native language feature for list of X or have a native template of which list is one.
... The project I'm addressing is for readable JSON-LD.
* ericP: is that "framed" JSON-LD?
* Gregg: JSON is a machine format- in fact many people do structure their JSON to look pretty and be readable. Framing is a tool to automate the process of going from RDF
* Harold: The communities I work with use JSON as a structured language- for good or bad it has replaced UML for this community. They even want the turtle to look good. The list idiom makes the JSON look better.
* ericP: We define the templates- give people a nice syntax w clear semantics 
* Harold: Lists would be good proof of templates. How much work do we want to put into this?
* ericP: I'd like to know if people have use cases that would make templates compelling
* Harold: If you're transforming UML templates- then you'd have an analog in ShEx.
* ericP: Accomodating UML would get shex more attention.
* Harold: eric will you put the correct label on that issue?
* ericP: Best path for lists: uml use of generics

### Dataset validation

* ericP: so far, ShEx has two phases 1. build a shapemap 2. go validate it. 
...I don't search for more triples to put in that shapemap, so  the expressivity in the thing we use for building shapemaps that is not in shex. 
...In JSON LD 1.1 as used by verifiable claims community- the object of the prop that begat the graph gets filled with the name of the graph- nothing that conects that prop to any of the triples 
* Gregg: Annonymously named graphs in verifiable claims. There's no open issue that specifically relates to rooting graphs implied by `@graph`.
... We can take node definitions where the subject of some node that is the object of another triple. We can find the roots by the triples where the subject is not also an object.

* https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/30#issuecomment-402052256
