## Telecon 2018-01-16  Minutes

 * Participants: Kat, Gregg, Harold, Dimitris, Tom, Andra, 
 * Regrets: Lars

Call in Jitsi # https://meet.jit.si/ShEx


 * Chair: Dimitris
 * Scribe: ericP

last minutes: https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/blob/master/meetings/20180109-minutes.md

Agenda: 

## Pending actions

### Community Updates

 * ericP: Iovka hired a full time programmer to work on ShEx for some years who has a PhD in Graph Theory,
... and is working on ShEx now Iovka's plan is to spend January teaching him ShEx, after which 
... he'll attend meetings, and working on long-running/distributed validation.
... Jose also got funding for a Grad Student, but does not have a candidate yet.
 * Kat: we are organizing a ShEx Tooling for Wikidata. first meeting tomorrow (all invited).
 ... developing tooling in the Wikimedia Foundation tool server (strong pref for tools to be on `toolserver`).
 ... ericP, Andra, Lucas, I Daniel Mietchen and Finn Aarup Nielsen are meeting tomorrow to kick that off.

* Dimitris: weekly meeting?
* Andra: need to see tomorrow.
... will try to port shex.js to wflabs.
... brainstorming session on what the tool should look like.
... might result in a regular meeting.

 * Harold: I took the formal semantics spec and transliterated it into python 3, which in many cases is more succinct than the wording in the spec.
... I've reported several issues -- a couple list.
... It passes ~1000 of the 1077 tests. doesn't support e.g. LexicalBNode.
... would love a code review from a python geek.
... I put together a first Jupyter notebook example.
... We have ShEx JSG, which is the ShEx abstract syntax which builds python typing hints which makes it nice for IDEs.
... if you supply e.g. a string where you need an int, it will let you know.
... we can load and emit ShExJ.
... can load ShExC but can't emit it. (not difficult; just not done yet)
... would love a publication out of this.

* Andra: ISWC reasearch and in-use track deadlines are 30 March.
... met last week in Leiden remodeling [genes? proteins? ...].
... I worked in ShEx but everyone else likes to draw.
... I examined yEd to edit ShEx.
* Harold: can use XML tools for that.
* Andra: no pref for XML.
* Harold: there's UML sprinkled through W3C specs. a mapping would help.
* Andra: these folks use their own graphical representation.
... ericP and I sketched some stuff up last week.
* Harold: GraphML to ShEx is independent of my impl but having it would be useful.
... ShEx to GraphML or visa versa?
* Andra: I would like ShEx to GraphML but these folks need GraphML to ShEx.
* Harold: is there an e.g. Sublime syntax-directed editor plugin?
* ericP: yes, Jose's herokuapp has a sublime plugin.

* Harold: My implementation is quite literal. there may be inputs that make it take a long time.

* ericP: most likely scenario is accidental repeat of part of a shape. produces a cartesian product.

[PyShEx jump off point](https://github.com/hsolbrig/PyShEx) - requires python 3.6
https://github.com/hsolbrig/PyShEx/blob/master/tests/utils/manifest_tester.py
* Harold: manifest_tester includes what's skipped, including what's skipped for reasons not indicated by traits.
... couple that need import traits.
... RDF interpretation of manifest.jsonld doesn't produce the same RDF graph as the manifest.ttl
* Gregg: jsonld might be a bit behind.
* Harold: i suspect a missing bit in the context.
* ericP: i have to regen the jsonld whenever i add tests.
* Gregg: i process the .jsonld as json.
... could test the round-trip [in pre-commit]
* ericP: graph isomorphism tools arn't thick on the ground
* Gregg: could use the graph normalization spec. gives you a better shot at finding the difference.
* Harold: PyShEx raised a couple of rdflib issues, e.g. recursive parsing of RDF lists.


Harold's Issue list
 * Datatype example uses non-sparql11 datatype            #81
> Only datatypes supported by SPARQL MUST be tested but ShEx extensions MAY add support for other datatypes.

* ericP: https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/80  Type mismatch in 5.2 Validation Definition
There is some consistent mapping that you can apply throughout your validation and get a consistent solution
* Harold: value of implementing in a language like python or haskell - forced to figure out type, and IDE complains if not used
...you pass G through, schema seems to be implicit, 

https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/79 `nodeIn` appears incorrect for blank nodes
* ericP: nodeIn is a way to say if I look hard at this IRI does the data set match it. No tests for this. Line should go away.

* Harold: I couldn't see any rational way to implement it. 

* ericP: If you want to vote, let's vote in the comments
https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/79#issuecomment-357547513

https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/74 No way to say "any language-tagged string"
https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/74#issuecomment-353878933


ISWC 2018? http://iswc2018.semanticweb.org/
deadline March 30

