# ShEx Telecons



## Telecon 2018-07-19  Minutes

* Participants: Kat, Dimitris, ericP, Harold, Tom, Andra, Samuel Klein
* Regrets: Lars

Call in Zoom # https://zoom.us/j/441496948

* Chair: Dimitris
* Scribe: Kat and ericP

### Community updates
* ShEx workshop accepted to [Semantic Web in Libraries](http://swib.org/swib18/) (November 2018)
    * Kat: Tom, Andra, myself, and maybe ericP will give a tutorial at SWIB
    * Tom: 1/2 day workshop with laptops to provide some hands-on training with ShEx
* ShEx implementation deployed in biolink/Translator working group https://github.com/biolink/biolink-model
    * Harold: The BioLink and Translator project (a big US-funded grant) is working on combining various bio models.
    * ... They're using ShEx for interop.
    * ... Have build a ShEx schema of the BioLink model
    * ... They have their own metamodel already. They're generationg ShEx, YAML, etc.
    * Andra: Chris Mungall is on the GeneWiki group, which has a lot of overlap. They're using our ShEx models.
    * Harold: GeneWiki's already done a lot of the work they need to get done. My mission is to educate them over the next few weeks.

Andra is at Wikimania 2018- Andra would like to introduce Samuel Klein
 * Samuel Klein: working on a knowledge graph project. We'll end up defining interop between many different @@2s.
 * ... We started with astronomy and citation data. Andra and others have made a good case for bio(link) use cases.
 * ... We just want to trace provenance along each assertion in the graph.
 * ... We started with our own use cases but we're looking for external use cases.
 * Harold: a side-effect of my BioLink work is that the error reporting and performance of PyShEx have improved.
 * Samuel: Linking to IPFS
 * Harold: Both the js and python implementations have the slurper mode- you can point shex at a bunch of tripples- use shex to pull out the set of triples that the shape defines. Build structured info out of large collections of RDF triples.
 * ericP: it's like CONSTRUCT * but with a grammar body instead of a list of triples.
 * Harold: i'd like to use the FHIR annotations like a schema.org markup to annotate outside information. Then use the ShEx defns of FHIR resources to turn it into one or more instances.
 * ... FHIR is becoming prominent as an exchange format for clinic data so folks are asking "can we have FHIR-based stores?" The  answer is "no" becase data is highly denormalized but the RDF representation obviates a lot of those problems.
 * Kat: we got reviewer feedback about the perception that the RDF serialization of FHIR. Your work will raise the prominence of FHIR/RDF.

PREMIS (library metadata)
 * Tom: Mailing list for PREMIS- library work preservation - see https://gist.github.com/tombaker/806c63dc624463fb7903b1fbf5d9a283 
 * Kat: I've been working with PREMIS. I wanted to get the wikidata mapping done before introducing them to ShEx. Glad you are.

### Progress update on recursion issue reported by Peter

 * Dimitris: one month ago, we sent the new draft to Peter. Peter wants a review 
 * ericP: datasets still in the air because of verifiable claims' use of jsonld 1.1 the ability to embed graphs, without a root- which makes validation difficult. We might get rid of one of the more challenging use cases we had for dataset support. If that does go away- we have an easier job for creating dataset support.
 * Harold: FHIR community has adhoc solution- predicate that says "this is the root".
 * ericP: if that goes away- then we just hav the case of graph starting at a node- either have the same name, or might be urls where one has a fragment and the other does not. Would also be nice to have a 3rd implementation.
 * ericP: 2 obstacles: 1. extension model doesn't match set theory
 * Dimitris: could extension wait until 2.2?
 * ericP: It would be great to demonstrate that shex does extension and restriction well.
     * Dimitris: What work remains to get this out?

### Dataset support #77

### Discuss type inheritance

### List support #86 if time...

