## Telecon 2018-03-29  Minutes

* Participants: Dimitris, Andra, Harold, Iovka, Jeremie, Kat, ericP, Tom
* Regrets:  Gregg

Call in Zoom # https://zoom.us/j/441496948


* Chair: Dimitris
* Scribe: Dimitris, Andra


* Dimitris: Let's start with Iovka because she has a tight schedule
 
### ShEx recursion issue raised by Peter

* Iovka: I am adding definitions. There was a bug related to recursion. This can be fixed easily and the other problem is when a node satisfies a node with a shape mapping, you can have contradicting shape maps. This was not exmplicit in the spec and I am adding the missing theoretical parts. I will have a version ready by Peter by next Friday.
* Harold: if we fix anything in the spec we need unit tests. As I mentioned to Peter in my response I haven't implemented ??? and that is something I need to do.
* Iovka: if we make one of Peter's example as a test we will fail the negative tests
* Harold: I determined in one of PEter's tests as ill-formed but at runtime. DO you suggest to extend the compilers to do this at runtime?
* Eric: Sparql does not reject an ill-formed query. We can have a static analysis definition but not all implementers need to implement.
* Iovka: Can you have a sparql query that is correct that does not have defined semantics which is not the case of ShEx
* Eric: Indeed, if we have a few implementation that do the static analysis then this goes to the implementation responsibility
* Harold: When I determine an ill-formed shape at runtime we need to tell users what to expect when comfonted with an inconsistent shape.
* Eric: This is a better path to go to. 
* Harold: I find this less useful
* Eric: Iovka, can you give us an algorith for doing the static analysis?
* Iovka: Yes, will work it out with Jeremie on a separate document. I am planning to write a high level algorithm to validate schemas

### Community updates

#### Wikidata Utils
* Andra: discussion related to the paper we are writing now. The last month we are doing shape expressions. We have a framework to maintain GeneWiki bots and I am setting up a ShEx step that runs a series of checks for ??? . All the bots use Python and implementing with great help from Harold.
* Harold: Wikidata has various trottling mechanisms and encounted a few during our test cases. When Andra wrote this originally Wikidata was returing data that was missing a lot of useful information and then used an approach similar to Eric's that fetches data on demand. When complete the graph that you get back is all the triples you need to validate. That's something that can be usefull in other contexts as well.
* Eric: SPARQL DESCRIBE would be implemented with a similar way

### Type mismatch in 5.2 Validation Definition
https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/80

* Harold: I think Peter submitted the same (or a similar) issue
* Eric: Iovka will take over this
* Harold: (... explaining issue ...)
* Eric: (... explaining issue ...) if I validate some node as a shape then that has to be consistent with what the shape map has but Iovka will think about this in more detail
* harold: how I get to m from isValid form there was some things with no information where it was derived from. 

### Graph constraints issue #77
https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/77


* Eric: (... explaining issue ...) The use case that gregg presented has the weird situation where you have some shape that match some data, but it does not reference some node in that graph. This is one of the places where an extention language has can be handy, but I don't have currently an idea who to do it. They can't do this in SHaCL core neither. 
* Eric: ask if other have use case where  hte object of some triple you are validating, is a graph name and the name of the graph is something you need to find by some other heuristic. 
* Harold: I see this as an anti-pattern. Once you start embedding semantics in URIs - these sorts of transformations are needed. They need to be concealed. I would weakly advocate not formalizing this. 
* Eric: this is even worse. If the transformation is at the end of the triple. Once you have this graph, just look for all the triples. 
* Eric: that is where I stand. Andra, have people in Wikidata made subgraphs? 
* Andra: No. There will be a workshop next month that will scratch the surface. 
