# ShEx Telecons

## Telecon 2018-11-07  Minutes

* Participants: Tom, Kat, Jose, Jeremie, ericP
* Regrets: 

Call in Zoom # https://zoom.us/j/441496948

* Chair: Kat
* Scribe: 

### Community Updates

### ShEx 2.1 Release Candidate
ericP: Implementation reports from Jose and Harold. Incldes syntax and the validation tests. Does not include negative syntax.
Jose: I ignored 5 tests that we still need to move out.
ericP: I need to move those out. Concern: We have a semantics that covers stratified negation, and we don't have tests yet. How long would it take to test this?
Jeremie: Let's start with 30 mins.
ericP: I propose that we release shex spec as it is with one fix for the lang range, and with a couple of tests related to stratified negation. Delegate to the 3: ericP, Jose, Jeremie.

PROPOSE: approve shexSpec/spec as release candidate for ShEx 2.1, with additional text for language range issue raised by Harold, and subject to Jeremie, Jose and Eric producing satisfactory stratification tests.
ericP: +1
kat: +1
Jérémie: +1
Labra: +1
Tom: +1

### Issue tracker cleanup - https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues


### ShEx 2.1 negative structure tests

NegativeStructure tests in https://github.com/shexSpec/shexTest/tree/new_spec/negativeStructure

5 negativeStructure/TwoNegation2_fail.shex

```
PREFIX :       <http://example.org/>
:S ( (NOT @:T) AND @:U )
:T { :a NOT @:S } 
:U { :b @:S } 
```
First graph
```
:S - :T
:S + :U
:T - :S
:U + :S
```
Second Graph
```
:T - :U because of :T - :S, :S + :U in first graph
:U - :T because of :U + :S, :S - :T in first graph
```
Last step is to look for a cycle in the second graph with at least one negative edge. If it's the case, then reject.


Another example that should pass (TwoNegation_pass): 
```
PREFIX :       <http://example.org/>

:S { :a NOT @:T }
:T NOT @:U 
:U { :b @:S } 
```
1st:
```
:S - :T
:T - :U
:U + :S
```
2nd:
```
:S + :U | :S - :T, :T - :U
:T <skip 'cause not a shape>
:U + :S
```


### Test suite discussion


### AOB

 
 sion

### AOB
