## Telecon 2018-01-09  Minutes

 * Participants: Eric, Andra, Kat
 * Regrets: 

Call in Jitsi # https://meet.jit.si/ShEx- jitsi not working, falling back to Hangouts: https://hangouts.google.com/call/66pvlviou5gyjdk4sljzsfuqzqe
Zoom maybe: https://zoom.us/j/134235537

 * Chair: Eric
 * Scribe: Kat

last minutes: 

Agenda: Special meeting on restriction/extension in inheritance

## Pending actions


# Agenda

ericP's playground:
  http://rawgit.com/shexSpec/shex.js/specialize-in-ShapeDecl/doc/shex-simple.html?manifestURL=../examples/inheritance/manifest.json

* ericP: The manifest has 6 examples. The top one is diamonds- produce a realistic scenario that had 

* ericP: Jose and I - both need restriction, extension. Just talked to Jose a few hours ago. I tried to come up wiht a situation where I had extensions of restrictions and vice versa. What happens then, if you look at vitals restriction, scroll down, emulates vitals diamond. I had had to predict what people might do in vitals diamond. But the point of inheritance is to reuse schemas without having to negotiate wiht the author. So in vitals restriction prepends the shape you are defining. If you want to validate a 'postureBP' with respect to all inherited shapes, then you would have to send off parts to different shapes- complex to describe and implement, but it alows us to be able to validate against that with more properties, because props allocated to BP - basically it means people have more latitude to predict how others are going to extend shapes.

* ericP: Eiffel has a feature somewhat like this- a modeling lang and a programming lang. It seems to do a very good job with inheritance. We can extend our syntax to handle all of the things Eiffel does- but I don't think we will have to for a while. XMLSchema has inheritance with both restriction and extension. I checked wiht the chair of XMLschema working group- to see what he remembered of their discussions- they didn't go there for multiple inheritance- reusability is not great. If we apply a couple of restrictions- like if you want to extend a shape expression- it must be only a shap, or all conjuncts must be shape and node constraints (nothing else) that's because while restriction is effectively an opperation over shapes, extension is an opperation over triples. 

* ericP: at the bottom of the manifest the final example - best viewed with syntax hilighting- is an exploration of multi-generation inheritance, multiple inheritance, and inheritance across conjunctions of a node expression and a shape, and transitive combinations of both restriction and extension.

* ericP: Gregg, I hate to be the one to say this but, you told me so and you were right.

* ericP: If I am extending something, and that extension restricts something else, then I have to take the partition that were going to be used to validate the resulting shape expression and validate just them against the current shape. 

<#PostureBP> EXTENDS <#BP> EXTENDS <#PostureVital> { }
<#ReclinedBP> EXTENDS <#BP> EXTENDS <#ReclinedVital> { }

would like to say something like: <#ReclinedBP> RESTRICTS <#PostureBP>  { } ... restricted by <#Reclined>

could use the passive voice a la: <#ReclinedBP> EXTENDS <#BP> EXTENDS (<#PostureVital> RESTICTED BY <#Reclined>) { }
