Meeting: 2017-05-12
Present: Dimitris, ericP, Jesse, Kat, Gregg, Andra
Regrets: Tom, Karen, 




Agenda




Dimitris: last week we discussed the API. There was another meeting with ericP, Gregg, Jesse, Andra. Jesse, do you want to introduce?


Jesse: I sent a doc. You put them into the agenda topics. Goals:
… create a sync (2.0)
… create an async (2.1)
… separate parseSchema, parseData, parseShapeMap, validate
… have a premise ShapeMap (don’t revalidate)
… described the two-step process: build ShapeMap, then validate.
… ShapeMap is a (unique) set of node/shape pair.
… ShapeMap may have reason, negate, and appInfo
… ground ShapeMap


http://rawgit.com/shexSpec/spec/separate-APIs/API.html#APIasync


* Eric: [...explaining the sync / async document...]
* Greg: we could add this in an appendix so that people can find it easier
* Eric: reason for separate is that they have different lifecycles / update frequency and different audience
* Greg: Eric’s api is stateful vs the promise-based which is stateless
* Jesse: Do not know how to implement promises in REST interface
* Greg: HTTP 200 is success and HTTP 3x/4x is equivalent to rejected promise
* Eric: in REST I do a get and do something, I do not doo a get and pass something
* Grep: there are many libraries that do that
* Jesse: but this is not REST
* Harold: it is to our advantage to have an asyn and we can do a sync whenever we want
* Eric: Jesse’s comment is that HTTP is not native to async
* Greg: HTTP is async but there are libraries that make it look like sync
* Jesse: we can either say that this has promises or is synchronous
* Eric: do we want to implement this to have a concrete example?
* Jesse: even if we define it with promises people will use conventional methods to implement it
* Greg: Promises are native to javascript and there are promise libraries in many languages but in e.g. Ruby it is not a good fit for the language.
* Jesse: the promises are types but how can we define the types of errrors?
* Greg: I think what we have now in spec for promise rejection is incomplete. Shape Error should include shapemap and statuses of each of those. If non-promises, then you would define in methods signatures the exception states
* Jesse: We could use raises
* Greg:in the case where promise is rejected, sync api would raise error that comes from rejection of that promise
* Jesse: We could state API with promises. 
* Ericp: there is a standarad way to take promise and wrap sync call. There isn’t a way to make a promise syncronous.
* Gregg: other way around. Sleep until promise is
* Harold: async don’t return until promise is complete
* Ericp: you have to return the fulfilled promise or return object won’t be useful 
* Gregg: wait calls.
* Ericp: java script is a single thread. Which is why promises exist. 
* Jesse: that is the idea of promises
* Ericp: you have to put callback in, no wait function that yields. Do we want an implementation that shows how this works? We could say the IDL does or does not describe the implementation
* Dimitris: break into smaller parts to make some progress
* Ericp: in the main document: http://rawgit.com/shexSpec/spec/separate-APIs/index.html#shape-map
Ericp: if we have an entry in a shape map that is how we will demonstrate if it conforms or not fixed shape map, provide id for start shape. Definition for validation that takes fixed shape map, ...i believe that is all we need for validation or conformance testing


VOTE: on moving the API description to a separate document. Adopt separate API branch as the main branch?
   * ericP: +1
   * Hsolbrig: +1
   * Gregg:+1
   * Andra: +1
   * Dimitris: +1
   * Kat: +1
   * Jesse: +1


VOTE: API will describe a stateful and a non-stateful version?
   * Hsolbrig +1
   * Gregg: +0
ericP: +1
   * Kat: +1
   * Andra: 
   * Jesse: +1
   * Dimitris: +1


      * Gregg: Stateful and non-stateful are orthogonal to sync and async
      * Gregg: How will we test this? If we make normative statement “must implement a stateful interface” what test harness tests for that?
      * Ericp: SPARQL
      * Dimitris: This refers to API testing not the full testing
      * Ericp: SPARQL protocol spec- people built testers for it- it would try a bunch of stuff and tell you how it worked
      * Gregg: Challenging to have several people testing against the endpoint
      * Ericp: only really useful for the REST interface
      * Gregg: Normative requirement that an implementation must implement one or both- this would imply that there would be a test harness to determine if implementation …
      * Ericp: These could be definitions that we don’t test- just use them as definitions to define REST interface. And not provide testing.
      * Dimitris: If we create API clients for different languages we could have basic tests
      * Ericp: you would have to mechanically load the library. How many langs does webIDL create stubs for?






###############
* DISCUSS - Have one basic IDL definition/function that can work in code (java, javascript, python,ruby & C) enviroment and work as REST API
* DISCUSS - Replace Promise with sync version of function, add to 2.1 the async version based on promise
* TODO/DISCUSS 2.1 - Define full api, with
** Seperate parse schema, parse graph & parse shapeMap functions
** Create IDL definition of the shape map itself
*** JSON representation?
** Add function that reuse the shapemap, instead of creating a copy
* TODO/DISCUSS 2.1 - Add promise shapemap, which hold shape to node mapping that are already in the conformant & non conformant state, which is needed for use case in which we have a continuesly updated resource which is continuesly revalidated (revalidation after each property modified)
** associated to that is the enableExpansion options (see enableExpansion in https://github.com/jessevdam/ShapeMap)
* TODO - Expand and add to the spec the story about the 2 steps shapemap creation and validation
----
The complete validation process is separated in 2 steps.


Step 1 The creation of the Node to (multiple) Shapes mapping named as the "ShapeMap" Shape Map using different techniques, which are at the moment not part of the SHEX standard.
Example options that could be freely used are listed here https://www.w3.org/2001/sw/wiki/ShEx/ShapeMap.


The only default mapping included in the standard is the default "ShapeMap". This "ShapeMap" contain only a mapping between the start Node (given as parameter to validation process) and start Shape given in the ShEx schema.


The ShEx/ShapeMap page describes different techniques for associating nodes with shapes.


Step 2 The ShEx validation as described in the spec[4]. Every node in the "ShapeMap" is validated against each of the associated shapes. Any nodes that neither are in the ShapeMap nor visited during the validation process are not validated.


This separation ensures that shapes are semantically independent and can be linked to different things dependent on the node to shape mapping.
----
* TODO - Clearly state that the shape map is a list of node to shape mapping, in which nodes as well as shape may occur multiple times, but may not contain duplicated node to shape mappings. Basicly forming an N to N relation ship for which each relation ship has the additonal properties 'status','reason','appinfo' and may be 'negate'


* INFORM - Split of the full shape map definition into a new standard, which will contain the FOCUS NODE construct in the shape map
* DISCUSS/INFORM - We will have seperate doc for the full API definition


* DISCUSS - Do we include the negate option in the version 2.0, the same functionality could actually be achieved by adding the 'ShapeNotTest {} AND NOT @ShapeTest' to the schema.


* DISCUSS - Removal of automatic parameter type and replace with explicit option, the schema and graph option where defined as to be automatically determinded, so if it would see a URI it will resolve the URI. However, I removed this because of potential further security issues.


* TODO - Expand error codes


* TODO - Describe parse schema, parse graph, parse shapemap & validate as order is not important(can be executed in paralel) as long dependencies are met


* DISCUSS - Result format for ShEx 2.0 validate function. I prefer shapeMap structure as described in https://shexspec.github.io/ShapeMap/



* DISCUSS - Upon init add to shape map all nodes list in the option focus nodes with a mapping to the START node


* DISCUSS - Start node: seperate token START or sx:Start


* TODO (jesse) - List all issues related to recursion (in combination with negation)
