

## Telecon 2017-04-14 Minutes

Participants: Dimitris, Gregg, Karen, Jesse, Kat, Eric
    
Regrets: Lars

Call info meeting # 194 817 445
+1-415-655-0001
Scribe:  gregg

### Open Actions

Dimitris: delayed on shacl/shex comparison

### Shapes Repository

 * dimitris: there was some discussion about creating a shapes repository on GitHub.
 * eric: I started a repository called "schemas", with one shape so far. I did it based on FOAF; I'll drop it in the ShEx Lobby as I look for the Etherpad. Things like FOAF are less interesting, as there are no cardinalities, but you can start to look at the relationships. 
 * Kat: I had a problem with WeEx, I am now a call-in user
 * Dimitris: I had something related to RDFUnit, that might be useful for validation. I created a set of constraints, say for geo:lat/long to verify values in proper range. In Java, [I made them as Maven resources.](https://github.com/AKSW/RDFUnit/blob/master/rdfunit-manual-tests/src/main/resources/org/aksw/rdfunit/tests/Manual/www.w3.org/2003/01/geo/wgs84_pos/geo.tests.Manual.ttl)
 * Eric: I think it's interesting to have native represenations; if we had a set of resources ... I thought this might be interesting for the test repo, where you can make packages to install the test suite. Does it make sense to do the same thing fore schemas.
 * Greg: With Ruby I use a git submodule and my infrastructure access it with uri substitution, redirects to local subrepo.  for e.g. schema.org, validate reviews ???
 * Dimitris: Whenever a use uses an assessement policy, it loads all the manual tests through RSS. But, also generate the tests from the old ontologies, as it has both OWL and SPARQL constraints.
 * Jesse: "gbol" ontology which is generated in ShExC (~2k lines)
 * Eric: Do we want to look at the package management approach, or focus on a repo of schemas?
 * Greg: starting with a set of repos can be easier
 * Eric: do we want to prioritize the development of schemas?
 * Greg: We're finishing 2.0 and we have to start the 2.1 track. But it makes sense to do this in parallel.
 * Dimitris: for me it started with just some files.

**PROPOSED**: use https://github.com/shexSpec/schemas for capturing common validation use cases

 * Kat +1
 * Gregg +1
 * Jesse +1
 * ericP: +1
 * Dimitris: +1

**RESOLVED**: use https://github.com/shexSpec/schemas for capturing common validation use cases

### Topic: Open Issues
 * Dimitris: there was some discussion on test issues.
 * Eric: I think the first three are handled by merging Stem-string. Datatype stems probably don't make as much sense as language stems, so we could resolve #55 that way.

### ISSUE: Does data type or language make sense in stems? [#55](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/55)

`<S> { :p [^^xsd:date ^^xsd:dateTime] }  -- <S> { :p xsd:date OR xsd:dateTime } `
 * Eric: the value of valueSets is that you don't need to write "OR", and you get heirarchical ranges (e.g. "fr" but not "fr-be") I don't see that coming up in datatypes. The value of the valueSet template is not as applicable to datatypes.
 * Gregg: I agree.
 * Dimitris: Eric, write a proposal on the issue and either Harold agrees there or we discuss it next time


### ISSUE: ShExJ LanguageStem should be STRING instead of ObjectLiteral [#54](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/54)

 * Dimitris: Is this JSON-LD related?
 * Greg: ???
 * Eric, I agree, I this we adressed this and can be closed
 * Greg: I agree

### ISSUE: updates to ShExJ @context [#56](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/56)

 * Eric: I this this is related and can be closed as well
 * Greg: I agree

### ISSUE: Update Antlr grammar to be in synch with the recent changes in BNF #39

 * Eric, this is in progress. We know it's done when Harold's parser maps ShExC to ShExJ.

### Publishing the final spec

 * Dimitris: when do we publish a final version of the spec?
 * Gregg: we asked for comments but didn't give a deadline.
 * Dimitris: we should create examples and high-level tools people can use.
 * Harold: a bunch of W3C specs that involve RDF include ad-hoc pictures which claim not to be UML.
 * ... It would make sense to start producing ShExC for the specs.
 * ericP: we have shexSpec/schemas
 * Harold: propose the test manifest
 * ... re tools, propose a UML-to-ShExC
 * Gregg: I always have to fix EARL reports
 * Dimitris: validate a few LOD datasets?
 * ericP: Andra's doing that on wikidata
 * Harold: schema.org? has anyone said what should be on a particular type of webpage?
 * ... we could convert pages to RDF and validate it.
 * Gregg: I wrote a lint for RDF-A, JSON-LD, etc. which is used in Travis tests.
 * ... schema.org doesn't have card constraints.
 * Harold: if i'm putting toghether a commercial website, having profiles to check price and description [would be helpful]
 * Gregg: it would be a good way for them to document their cardinality constraints
 * Jesse: OWL has allValuesFrom which gives you combinations that are invalid

 * Jesse: where are these shexc_to_shexj tools?
 * Harold: there's one in shexSpec/grammar based on ShExJ.jsg
 * Gregg, the ruby gem converts ShExC to ShExJ (and to an intermediate SXP representaiton)

 * Dimitris: we could create dev tools. There's one in RDF-Unit. You can write tests and it runs with the JUnit tests.
https://github.com/AKSW/RDFUnit/tree/master/rdfunit-junit#usage
