## Telecon 2017-08-18 Minutes

 * Participants: Eric, Kat, Andra, Greg
 * Regrets: Lucas, Lars, Dimitris

Call in Jitsi # https://meet.jit.si/ShEx
 * Chair: Eric
 * Scribe: Kat

last minutes: https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/blob/master/meetings/20170804-minutes.md

Agenda: https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/blob/master/meetings/20170818-agenda.md

Wikidata hackathon
Andra: 1.Wikidata ShEx session
basic intro based on pre-defined shapes (genes, diseases, proteins, wikicite)
ericP: If people use datacube or anything like that, we could create shapes like that which could also help others

ontology of popular music
GLAM- galleries, libraries, archives and museums
Silvio Perioni's ontologies http://www.essepuntato.it/

Andra: Use Eric's tool, prepare a set of shapes there & queries, show how to validate (first 15 mins)
then go hands-on and write shapes and SPARQL queries

Kat: I need someone to review my fileformat and software shapes
Andra: I can review them

Andra: I need to work with ericP for example.js, write a file they can use at WikidataCon

Kat: I can reach out to Silvio

ericP:Here is a set of data files that are expected to pass or to fail
list of pointers to schema, data, querymap
that would allow people to select and run. all of those things can be together and have a manifest file with them, load it by URL into ShEx Simple interface and it will have pointers to other files
each schema will then come with its own test data

Andra: data from SPARQL?
Kat: Lucas has  a link :
www.wikidat.org/wiki/Special:EntityData/QID.ttl

Kat: Where does the word manifest comes from?
ericP In ShEx simple you can click through success and fail examples. The manifest file captures these examples that would populate Eric's tool. The manifest demonstrate users what good and bad data loooks like.

Manifest comes from the test manifests. 

IMPORT in Shex
    https://github.com/shexSpec/shexTest/commit/f1b674bff03c630cadadf3d137c7a3fa386ee428 added one test schema

ericP: That takes care of everything but content negotiation
Gregg: I don't know if there is a standard there, we need a way of specifying- why not put a file extension as part of it
ericP: Then the .shex .ttl .json be different?

Gregg: Don't get content type back from a local file system, most systems that parse rdf already do that
ericP: right, I don't know that it is in any RDF test suites
Gregg: For file local stuff- that is usually what the developer is using themselves- if you retrive the URL you should get a content type that identifies it that is all we need
ericP: Testers don't have to implement every language
Gregg: rdf test systems put extensions on the files they expect to load, unless they are specifically testing for content negotiation, so we may not need to break new ground here
ericP: They're different in that they are all single-format, none have our situation of JSON imports, ShExC import, and ttl import

ericP: We know how to turn ShEx into ShExJ into ShExR
Andra: When I tried this with rdflib in python, it failed on the return back
Gregg: try rdf.greggkellog.net- distiller or JSONLD playground

Andra: When you say import- let's take the example from cancer variant- based on multiple shapes- is this a case where you'd use IMPORT?
ericP: Yes.
Andra: what about ciruclar imports?
ericP: anything managing imports should be able to reuse imports and not have to import them again

ericP: going back to file extensions- it could say 1dot.shex, this is why I'm tempted to go with content negotiation compared to chopping off file extensions
Gregg: That would be odd. Could also have surrounding material in test suite to map extensions to media types

ericP: When writing a test suite- lib should support not only the defined language requirements, but also other funtions thrown in to suite.
This is standard practice that you often have to write extra code into library to support your test suite
Gregg: if we describe expectation that content neg is used to specifiy or make rec about what header should look like, parsed into relative intermediate form, then combined
ericP: negative syntax tests are usually run before

ericP: I am relieved to hear that I am going in the right direction on this, you could import something and doubly-define The same shape.
shacl handles this with a graph union
There are some decisions to make about what happens when your first import defines shape 1 and then your document also defines shape1
Only impact on validation is that it will work on result of - start and startAct integration

Gregg: I think it would be invalid, 

ericP: Anytime you import- if more than one has a start or startAct, then it will barf

Gregg: have we defined what happens if there are multiple starts?

ericP: not allowed in ShExC [or JSG].

ericP: The importer could ignore imported starts/startActs or it could barf
prob is that if we want to define an order.
if we did that we couldn't have backwards compatibility with implementations that do not allow multiple starts

Kat: so two shapes, one with a start and one without?

[Yes]

