## Telecon 2017-03-17 Minutes

Participants: Dimitris, Kat,, Gregg, Tom, Karen, Jose, Eric, Andra, Harold, Jesse
    
Regrets: Iovka

Scribe: 


### Open actions

KEEP ACTION: Andra to proof-read Eric's text on NP-Complete

#### Jose to proof-read this section http://shexspec.github.io/primer/#empty-shape

Jose: I think it is not correct because  there can be other case the a node can match a shape

Eric: I should say "if the min card on every property is zero, and any node that doesn't have an incoming or outgoing arc that matches one of the predicates does not match. (Any literal will match, they have no arcs out)

Jose, not only literal, any RDF node that does not match the shape

Eric: Literals alwas match an empty shape, maybe make this as a warning

Jose: change "any RDF node" to any "Literal"

### Discuss Tom's abstract: https://github.com/shexSpec/primer/blob/gh-pages/Text-to-add.txt

Karen commented at https://github.com/shexSpec/primer/issues/4

Karen: This may be out of context because I haven't read through whole Primer for awhile.

Tom: we are working intensively on the primer that last days. If there is any misunderstanging of ShEx in my text please tell me. The current text was based on my high level understanfding of what ShEx is about, feedback on the terminology is welcome. Once I get feedback I can put parts in various parts of the spec

Eric: I can give it a look. you can acce it at shex.io/primer

### Publishing of ShEx

Eric: we should make people aware of ShEx. If we have a chance to announce ourselves in the next few weeks, we should try to do so.

Andra: can I use some material from a poster

Eric: Text is pretty solid

Gregg: What does it take to get something posted with W3C news?

Eric: Will ask Coralie.  We can write blogs into the ShEx page.

Eric: Repository where people work through PROV and other specs to show what the ShEx looks like.

Andra: we used ShEx to test data of the Dutch elections: https://github.com/andrawaag/ShEx/tree/master/wikidata/general

Jesse: I can give my ??? example for UNIPROT

(discussion on where to host this)

Dimitris: What else do we need , besides the "examples" repo?

Eric: change some tests as ShapeMap but will break some tests, also we need to see the engine response, finish the parsing section on the spec and primer

Greg: change test input based on specification
... results now are pass/fail

### ShEx results format

API in spec: https://shexspec.github.io/spec/#the-application-programming-interface

Greg: I updated the spec to describe an API in WebIDL  (... describing the section ...). There is room to add structured information here. can be unspecified for v2.0
... WebIDL is challenging to work on the spec but is adequate for we are trying to do

Eric: What is the implementation time about this?

Greg: My implementation uses Ruby closures to do this. Promise is something a JS implementation can easily do.
(technical discussion hard to scribe)

Eric: can we meet again next week

Dimitris: same time
