
## Telecon 2017-06-09 Minutes

 * Participants: Eric, Tom, Dimitris, Lars,Jesse, Lucas, Andra
 * Regrets: -Greg

Call in Zoom: https://zoom.us/j/307686876
 * Chair: Dimitris
 * Scribe: Tom

Agenda: https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/blob/master/meetings/20170609-agenda

Scribe: Tom

Introduction of Lucas Werkmeister:
    Student, currently intern at Wikimedia Deutschland, working on quality issues in Wikidata

Topics:
 * IDL (discussion, sum up, see remaining points)
 * Discuss remaining points from SHACL / ShEx CS
   * SHACL has withdrawn CS.

 * Eric: Tom and I did some edits on the Primer - nothing particularly controversial.  https://github.com/shexSpec/primer/commit/efba681416c5e9ee17bd057ae43a3d0965c8a429
 * Tom: Lucas make a nice pull request that caught subtle errors.
 * Eric: asks for approval.

**PROPOSED**: Accept primer edits https://github.com/shexSpec/primer/commit/efba681416c5e9ee17bd057ae43a3d0965c8a429

 * Dimitris +1
 * Tom +1
 * ericP +1
 * LarsG +1
 * Lucas +1
 * Andra +1
 * Jesse +1
 
**RESOLVED**: Accept primer edits https://github.com/shexSpec/primer/commit/efba681416c5e9ee17bd057ae43a3d0965c8a429
 
  * Eric: Gregg is not here.  We should not resolve anything in his absence.  Is primer useful?
  * Lars and Lucas: Definitely.
  * Eric: Where we stand on the API.  We had this notion of a shape map in the ShEx spec, and know we wanted to keep orthogonal to the ShEx spec, which is pretty solid.  Currently says: "Given a shape map...".  Contrast with SHACL, which keeps shape map construction in the schema, raising usability issue.  Can be resolved with owl:imports but does not encourage good behavior.
 Jose and I implemented "node-shape" pairs.  We did a controversial thing: making the node that you pass in be subject to relative IRI resolution and prefix resolution - shape relative to the schema prefix and base.  Crackpot idea, but good for usability.  Tom and I spoke last week with Gregg, who initially said "that's crazy", then backed down.  Points out that in RDFa, there is the notion of a processing graph and a result graph.  Processing graph: all the stuff that a parser writes down.  Result graph: triples it got.  Precedent to expanding RDF expressivility, make it easier to cut-and-paste.  Is it a usability boon, or is it crazy, or in-between?  How weird would it be to standardize this behavior?  Last piece of puzzle: the API document and ShEx map document that preceded it have the notion of a query map that gets resolved into a shape map.  Query map can have prefix names and triple patterns.  Our understanding: expressiviity would increase as people figure out new ways to generate shape maps.  Jesse?
 * Jesse: Also: stateful versus non-stateful.  Synch versus ASynch.
 * Eric: Is it a library API versus a REST API?  One way to understand: several operations involved.  Parsing the schema, the shape map, then the validation.  Gregg means "stateful".  X = "parsed schema", Y, Z... - validate X Y and Z.   Stuff stored in termporary variables.  Stateless just a validate function that has all that stuff behind it.  OUr strategy in API document: define stateless in terms of the stateful.  Implementing in JS with understanding that we will use that to define it.  Promises more standard in JS, and a good way to deal with asynchronous Web.
 
 * Jesse: Nice definition.  In conclusion, library API will be asynchronous. REST API will be based on promises.  Way to validate "only the things that change".
 * Dimitris: Things that change in the data graph?
 * Jesse: When data graph changing.  
 * Eric: a common use case.   Main use case: data changes, schema rematins same.
 * Jesse: Can validate without having to validate all instances in database - it is very fast.
 * Eric: Because alot of state is captured during validation. 
 * Jesse: So you don't have to re-validate things you already have.
 * Eric: Jesse, Gregg, Harold, Jose and I pushing on this.  Anyone else?  Okay, so we will continue on, and check in occasionally.
 * Jesse: We need task list.
 * Eric: And priority list: what goes into Version 1 vs 2.
 * Jesse: Things that update shape map.  But for implementation, not validator.
 * Dimitris: How is this related to the API?  Separate things or part of IDL and APIs we were discussing.
 * Jesse: Not directly part of IDL, but IDL must be defined in such a way that.  
 * Dimitris: You want to find a way to reference validated results to the user or for the implementations?.
 * Eric: Stateful way to keep them arounding.  Long-running validation process.  You can keep your intermediate results around and up to validation how to.
 
 Document that captures alot of what we are discussing
http://rawgit.com/shexSpec/spec/separate-APIs/API.html#dfn-fixed-shapemap

Also different from ShEx specifcation: Web IDL stuff moved out.  If only Jesse and I (on the call) are doing this, should move on in the call.

 * Jesse: Time scale for working on documentn for API?
 * Eric: Could have skinny version, get done in three weeks, so we have a way to fire off validation.

Andra can help.

Eric: Part of the ShEx vision all along.  Need this bit.

Dimitris: Something simple now, more advanced later - stateless would be easier.

Eric: We could just define the Query Map with transformation into a shape map.

Dim: I think people would be okay with stateless API.  Work on stateful as we go.

Eric: Last week discussion led towards starting with stateful, which is more of a programmer API.  Other issues around stateless one: Web specs usually used just with JS.  Not really apparent whether supposed to use Promises in Java, or something more common like Channels.  Applies to Python, Ruby, C...  Query stuff is skinny.  One option: go back to original ShEx map document, which addressed query issues but not API.  Then API document that references it.  Gives isolution for the pieces.  So people either looking at primer or reading docs.  Strong opinions on this call?

Jesse: Should have clear separation between API and REST API.  Two sections.

Eric: Should Shape map be its own spec?

Jesse: Yes.  One document about programming API and ReST API, and one for shape map syntax.  If there is controversy about.

Eric: G's idea good: see why one wants for usability.  Could write down informally, then get around to doing formal spec later if it is easy.  People know what to do, but hard to define.  If pulling from two, which prefix trumps?  Can describe roughly.

J: Belongs to shape map doc, and not to API.  

Eric: Cannot break into separate pieces if we cannot get out the Meta.  If we just define the query state map without this, then people can implement that and it will take some of the pressure off - have met necessary use cases.  So Plan A is make Query Map spec, then reference from

STRAWPOLL: Create Query ShapeMap spec separate from API spec. Add informative text describing prefix and relative IRI resolution to the bottom of the Query ShapeMap spec.
 
 * Tom +1
 * ericP +1
 * jesse +1
 * Dimitris +1
 * LarsG 0 (don't understand enough to say if it's good or not...)
 * Lucas 0 (same)
 * Andra: +1
 
 Eric: Gregg working on putting into his distiller.  He will be fresh from thinking about UI issues.  If he adds to his distriller, might be able to add a third "try it" link to the Primer.


