## Telecon 2017-11-21 Minutes

 * Participants: Kat, Gregg, Dimitris, Andra, Eric, Lars, Tom
 * Regrets: 

Call in Jitsi # https://meet.jit.si/ShEx
 * Chair: Dimitris
 * Scribe:Kat

last minutes: https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/blob/master/meetings/20171107-minutes.md

Agenda: https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/blob/master/meetings/20171121-agenda.md

## Pending actions

 * Eric  work on a prototype for extending shapes
Write up here:
https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/blob/master/Inheritance.md
* Dimitris to investigate on Confluence requirements extraction (for ShEx on MarkDown)
 
Dimitris: (not suitable for ShEx, [custom page template creation](https://confluence.atlassian.com/doc/blog/2015/08/how-to-document-product-requirements-in-confluence))
   
   Nothing to report.
   It won't help us. They have their own custom code. Closed source.
   
 * Eric to make a syntactic sugar suggestion for issue "[No way to say "any language-tagged string" #74](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/74)"

Nothing to report.
Gregg: RDF lang string?
Eric: changing grammar for non-stem value, now we will have another one @*. 
Gregg: Unknown lang or no language can be indicated. Have you checked if they have wildcard?
Eric: Rules for * are application-specific.

# Agenda

## Community updates


## Community updates
   * Jupyter Notebook for ShEx: https://github.com/andrawaag/shex-jupyter

 * Andra: it is work in progress. Javascript kernel building on Eric's work. atm it takes the data and the schema from URL and want to make them as input from a field
as soon as this is ready it will be available as a Jupyter book

## Feature popularity
 * Dimitris: We decided to have a popularity contest for the features to see what people want to see most

https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Areactions-%2B1-desc+label%3Alanguage-suggestion

 * Dimitris: Does this list align with what implementers have in mind?
 * Gregg: I have been behind in my implementation. The data set thing came out of discussions on verifiable claims- using named graphs in a way transparent to JSON developers.
 * Eric: Problem we face for named graphs- use cases
 * Gregg: RDF working group dropped ball on named graphs. This is an opportunity to define. We could allow developers to provide some intended semantics.
 * Eric: Lots of people do different things. That's one reason there were no further definition within RDF working group. That is a good thing because now we can look at use cases and see if we can support them.
 * Dimitris: With regard to new features, is there any concern about making the test suite more diverse? 
 * Eric: If you have people who are doing different things, we want to have at least 2 interoperable implementations for each feature. Test spec could be divided. Features by facet for each test. Test suite users will be able to filter out features. Downside of differentiating by facet in manifest- ginormous manifest.
 * Gregg: I don't see a facet- I see trait.
 * Eric: Trait is what I meant.
 * Gregg: Chunk tests by trait. Advantage of single manifest- tests can be added that overlap. Easier- one thing to run.
 * Eric: Early days of SPARQL 1 candidate recommenation- we had a big pile of tests. Coverage generation side rather than up to inidividual testers.
 * Gregg: We might want an automated test runner or an endpoint. Reports come in haphazard, not synchronized. If developers can provide endpoints for their own impelementations we could keep more up to date with reports.
 * Dimitris: Docker?
 * Eric: We would need a comman-line interface. Jose and I are using the same API. 
 * Eric: When we are talking about the popularity contest- warning vs. required- I have some new input from DanBri- Google implementation fustrated by different notions of severity for missing property vs. ??- relatively complex.

## Shape Extensions: https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/50

write-up: https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/blob/master/Inheritance.md

 * Eric: Extension from FancyShEx- meaning of extension- take everything from one shape and add more properties. Conflation of hierarchy of shapes that may stand in for that shape vs. a way of constructing aggregate shapes with pieces of inherited shapes. People can do aggregation with inclusion- but we think inheritance 
 * Eric: From XML schema there is another take- extension of -  https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/blob/master/Inheritance.md#two-inheritance-operators 
extension and restriction: restriction is an AND, they also have extension which adds stuff together ('each of' in our semantics).
I'd like people to identify problems before I implement it.
 * Gregg: It would be nice to have some use cases to walk through.
 * Eric: I was hoping that these examples would serve that purpose.
 * Eric: we will also need to figure out the punctuation to indicate extension and restriction- my preference is the top one & for extension and - for restriction, that would leave + for some future feature.
 * Dimitris: Any questions? Anything to clarify for inheritance?
 * Lars: I'll need to read through this document again.
 * Eric: You can also edit the document directly.
 * Dimitris: Let's discuss this in the Gitter Lobby.
 * Eric: I'll try to have something implemented so people will have something to play with. 

## Constraint weights / severities for ShEx: https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/76

 * Dimitris: DanBri wanted to use ShEx severities for webmasters to use.
 * Eric: ShEx 1 demo did not have this, Validata implementation had it. SHACL has an annotation - if you fail a constraint and the constraint has a severity annotation it will get included in the error report.
 * Dimitris: At the begining it also was part of validation- but now it is just an annotation. In theory SHACL keeps 3 IRIs. In shexc you can have annotations, but if you want consistent behavior for weights or severities we have to do this.
 * Gregg: They have a very large vocab- class by class or prop by prop basis- was there any discussion of how they might handle that?
 * Eric: One other issue- schema.org has its own schema- then every application has its own use of may and must- this won't change our requirements- but we do need to factor in who is making demands vs. who is making another set of demands. 
 * Eric: Crackpot scheme: 

```
NEED missing:2 value:2 card:2
WANT missing:1 value:2 card-low:1 card-high:2
<Issue> {
    NICETOHAVE :submitter @<Person>
}
<Person> {
    MUST: name .
}
```
 * Dimitris: Do I as the author of a shape have the ability to override constraints or severities?
