# ShEx Telecon 2017-02-03

Friday Feb 3rd, 16:00 CET / 10:00 ET / 07:00 PT for 1 hour
(in [Other timezones](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=ShEx+CG+meeting&amp;iso=20170203T16&amp;p1=37&amp;ah=1))

Connection details: https://meet.jit.si/ShEx or http://tinyurl.com/ShEx-hangouts (as backup)


## Admin

 * Chair: Dimitris Kontokostas
 * Scribe: tba

*Next neeting*: 2017.02.17

## Agenda 

 * New member introductions (Tom Baker)
 * Open tasks
   * Wiki cleanup
   * Chair nominations
   * Feedback on section 1-4 of the spec
 * Issue tracking & discussion
   * A lot of discussion takes place in github issues and not on mailing list
   * Workflow for opening & managing issues
 * Role of RDF in ShEx
   * Dicussion: what whould be the role of RDF as ShEx representation
 * Role of JSON in ShEx
   * Dicussion: what whould be the role of JSON as ShEx representation
 * Primer 
 * [Technical issues](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+milestone%3A2.0)
   * Discuss minor remaining point on [issue 22](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/22#issuecomment-276995266)
   * Discuss [Should a shape imply NONLITERAL?](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/13)
 * AOB 
