## Telecon 2018-01-30  Minutes

 * Participants: Kat, Lucas, Tom, Gregg, Harold, ericP, Dimitris, Andra
 * Regrets: 

Call in Jitsi # https://meet.jit.si/ShEx


 * Chair: Dimitris
 * Scribe: Eric

last minutes https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/blob/master/meetings/20180130-agenda.md

Agenda: 

## Pending actions

### Community Updates

#### JSON-LD WG Charter: https://json-ld.github.io/charter/

 * Gregg: for folks interested in supporting that.
... this will provide a road to standardize JSON-LD 1.1 stuff that we want for ShEx
... I'm slated to be the main editor
... two chairs: Rob Sanderson, Benjamin Young. Ivan Herman will be the team contact.
... please encourage W3C AC members to support the group.
... always looking for participants.
... CG meetings are every other Wed.
 * Tom: I'm an AC rep. when do we vote?
 * Gregg: this is just a heads-up (voting not yet started)
... scheduled start date in May
... AC meeting in May (Berlin?)
... so voting the previous months.
... Ivan suggested taking ShEx examples e.g. spec linking to active translate forms.
... 1.1 supports ShEx wish list.
 * ericP: impls?
 * Gregg: ruby does everything, js everything except some framing updates. starting on python
 * Harold: are you using the python rdflib library?
 * Gregg: I believe I'm using something API-consistent with rdflib.
... Python JSON-LD implementation: https://github.com/digitalbazaar/pyld
... Using rdflib and pyld: https://github.com/zimeon/iiif-ld-demo/tree/master/jsonld-in-python

#### Jupyter:Notebooks
 *  Tom: Jupyter started out as a REPL, write some code, press return, output gets pasted into a webpage
   ... notebooks are natively in python.
   ... lend themselves to GitHub.
   ... GitHub correctly renders Jupyter
   ... used by data scientists.
   ... was originally python but now there are ~50 kernels (including, JS, Julia, R, SPARQL...)
   ... Harold showed us how to set up a schema and data in a jupyter notebook.
   ... had a call yesterday where we looked at a new impl of Jupyter called Google Colaboratory
   ... you can get n people hacking on a shared Jupyter notebook.
   ... we got our heads around it.
   ... it sets of a VM to support each user of the notebook server so e.g. you do different stuff to use Harold's python lib in Colaboratory vs. on a desktop.
   ... in the Colab, each participant has to run e.g. the pip install scripts
   ... i posted some examples in gitter.
   ... taking advantage of python interpolation for namespaces but that means that `<S> {  }` curlies must be escaped by doubling, and can't add bare '#' strings
   ... it's probably 80% done.
   ... i created a jupyter notebook for the first examples from the Primer.
   ... so the q is would it be possible to create a ShEx kernel that would let you enter a ShEx schema directly into an input cell (not in f-string). needed for schema, data, queryMaps
   Jupyter = Julia, Python, R

 * Harold: I used the f-strings for my own sanity - keeping the URI's together.
   ... Hash sign solved .  Anyway, f-strings not required.  Just what I was using
   ... I don't have ShExMap part working yet -- I don't execute Semantic Actions at this point

 * Andra: worked on notebooks yesterday and today.
   ... I have two projects using Harold's tools:
   ... 1. replicate wikidata queries
   ... 2. draw Shape Expressions in yEd.
   ... went to Leiden and got inspired. folks there are intimidated by ShExC.
   ... using Harold's lib in this yEd compiler
   
 * Harold: keeping up with bugs; simplifying.
   ... a third project is translating the Primery into a Jupyter notebook.
   
 * Kat: last week you mentioned writing a paper.
   ... do you have a place you want to work on the outline?
   
 * Harold: piratepad or latex
   
 * Kat: I have OverLeaf and ShareLatex. let me know what you want to see.
   
 * Harold: It's pretty open; we just need to say Mayo's doing good stuff on ShEx.
   
 * Dimitris: SmeWeb Journal has two types of relevent submissions. For tools, you have to show that it was useful to multiple people.
   http://www.semantic-web-journal.net/authors
   you can claim different levels of maturity : https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Technology_readiness_level
   
 * Andra: [wikidata -- missed it]
   
 * Harold: can leverage medical bent in wikidata
   
 * Andra: having the python code in a mature state could allow us to write a ShEx kernel analogous to the SPARQL kernel
   https://github.com/paulovn/sparql-kernel 
   
 * Harold: "mature" is a strong word to use
   
 * Andra: ericP and i tried but didn't figure out magics.
   ... there's an Anaconda lib to help you write kernels.
   
 * ericP: it's possible that a ShEx kernal would get more play than does the SPARQL kernel.
   
 * Tom: I heard Jupyter folks were working on multi-kernel pages.
   ... if anyone wants to hack on or improve the notebook, anyone with the URL can edit it.
   
 * Kat: Here is a link where we can outline: https://pad.okfn.org/p/shex-article-outlines
... setting this up on an etherpad since we need to choose the venue in order to choose a template, seems a little too early to start in Overleaf after hearing Dimitris' suggestions about SWJ

#### Lars' merge request for issue #10
 * Tom: We did 80% of it. ericP and I need to complete it. continue please.
 * ericP: I believe we did the stuff we could do without round-trips with Lars.

 * Andra: Kat, ericP, Lucas and some wikidata folks and I are meeting every two weeks.
 * Dimitris: how was 1st meeting?
 * Andra: well. we have regular meetings. things usually start in wikiproject.
 * Kat: we decided to fork the wikidata branch of shex-simple but keep it github. We decided that we don't need to move it to Phabricator yet.
   ... We will create a WikiProject within Wikidata where we can do this work in the open and hopefully invite/attract participation from more people from the Wikidata community

### Harold's raised issues.
   https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/created_by/hsolbrig
   https://github.com/shexSpec/shexTest/issues/created_by/hsolbrig
 * Harold: the RDF interpretation of the manifest.jsonld doesn't match the turtle
   ... traits aren't in the JSON-LD.
 * Gregg: maybe the conversion script needs work.
 * Harold: 
https://github.com/shexSpec/shexTest/issues/32
 * ericP: I parse the JSONLD and work that way. The only impact on my is in the coversion script that parses turtle and creates JSONLD
 * Gregg: I run the JSONLD
 * Harold: Since I wrote the turtle one first. I create JSONLD and turn that into RDF. You loose a couple of things and some namespaces come out different.
 * Gregg: continuous integration, different manifest forms are isometric
 * ericP: I added a YAML file to the testsuite
 * Harold: I'll put a note on the issue about continuous integration suggestion, published turtle has the correct URIs or if the context has the correct URIs. Using SHACL test suite or the shexspec test suite
 * ericP: part of it is from SPARQL from ages ago. Jose will say change the namespace. People at Lille won't get upset. We can decide right now if we want. I'm tempted to go with the shex, since it will be less confusing.
 * Harold: I have a weak pref for what is used in the turtle now, but it is pretty weak. There is one test out there that has an ID on the schema leve. Did you do something in 2.1 to allow an ID for a schema vs a shape or a triple?
 * ericP: I don't think so.

http://www.w3.org/ns/shacl/test-suite#  used in the turtle
https://shexspec.github.io/shexTest/ns#   used in the json-ld

 * Andra: For Feb 27 on I will not be able to join at this time due to a conflict. 

https://colab.research.google.com/notebook#fileId=1CB4EPj_JaXZNWkv2PHQ3Ryn5JahcstXU&scrollTo=tUY1jjuZq8be 


