# ShEx Telecons

## Telecon 2018-10-25  Minutes

* Participants: ericP, Tom, Kat, Dimitris
* Regrets: Lars

Call in Zoom # https://zoom.us/j/441496948

* Chair: Dimitris
* Scribe: Kat

### Community Updates

#### ISWC Tutorial
* Dimitris: Tutorial from Jose.
* Jose: ISWC tutorial went well.
* Dimitris: Feedback?
* Jose: Improve tooling from user point of view. More libraries where people can find them. Editor for ShEx. Tools to play with data models. I'll be working on usibility of tools in the upcoming months. ShEx Profiles compatible w SPARQL?. Maybe a subset at first. People need more tools. We need to improve error messages. 
* eriP: Someone mentioned your UML viz tool on the semantic-web@w3c.org. Using existing UML tooling, using that to generate shex.
* Jose: Yes.
* Andra: ShEx is gaining momentum in Wikidata. Storage locations for shex schemas to be reused by WMF communities. Now we host them on github. We need a new place to store them.

#### TPAC
* ericP: TPAC- web of things use cases. Decentralized extensiblity. Closed schemas, extension property, supply schemas to extension property. Use shex to define schemas for resources in web of things.
* Dimitris: Could this work for where to store schemas.

### Storage locations for shex schemas to be reused by WMF communities
* Andra: DINGO model. Diego is talking to CrossRef to sync DINGO w their use cases. Governing body? Perceptions might be a lack of  trust giving it is a band of individuals proposing models vs. a organization that people can learn about and trust. Shex.w render a shape expression into a model.  
* Dimitris: I heard 2 topics. 
* Andra: Yes, these are two different topics but related
* ericP: I want to capture LOD cloud as a schema, the vision of semantic web can be supported by interacting schemas that can be machine-validated and would increase discoverability. With import we are almost there. How do you draw boundaries around what you're going to import and what you are not going to import. Provides a requirement on OBO-ish resource for shex schemas. Different communities will have different visions of the thing, would be nice to be able to buy into only subsets of existing schemas.
* Dimitris: 
* Jose: CodeMirror for syntax highlighting
* ericP: getting shex into highlight.js
* Jose: In Wikidata- some node conforms to some schema- can we do that in ShEx. 
* ericP: invent something combining schema and shape, or point to shape that dereferences the schema. Doable. 
* Jose: You can declare nodes belong to a certain schema, or props to relate one schema to another schema. Define props for schemas, shapes and nodes. We don't have any way to do that.
* ericP: For doing multiples- shapeMap is the way to do that. 
* Jose: ShapeMap does not yet have RDF serialization.
* ericP: COuld use a subset of the manifest format for that. SchemaURL dataURL shape and focus. If you had a little structure that said @context on the json. 
* Andra: Eric and Jose will you be presenting at wikicite?
* ericP: We have a presentation slot.
* Andra: Perhaps we could present a few different options for storage for shex schemas for WMF communtites at the wikicite conference.
* Jose: I developed a feature to infer a shape from an RDF node
  https://goo.gl/XZdwDQ
* Tom: DCMI could host an application working group that could be a place to talk about schemas.
* Andra: There is more interest in this area. I'm at the Wikimedia Technical Conference, and there it was mentioned that other groups are faced with the need from some structure to discuss schema development.
* Tom: DCMI can provide context for publicizing what is going on, making a commitment to purl infrastructure- in case DCMI 
* Andra: It is not only about infrastructure, it is more about - having an identity for this work. 
* ericP: Jose's implementation is now up to 2.1
* Tom: Synaptica is in a development phase. They use scala. Interested in talking with Jose http://dcevents.dublincore.org/IntConf/dc-2018/paper/view/579/749
* ericP: Harold is also only a few tests away from passing everything for 2.1
* ericP: Learned how to run implementation report generator from Gregg

### Issue tracker cleanup - https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues


### Discuss about next ShEx release


### Test suite discussion


### AOB

 
 
