## Telecon 2018-03-15  Minutes

 * Participants: Kat, Eric, Jeremie, Harold, Tom, Lars, Andra, Dimitris, Harold
 * Regrets:  Gregg

Call in Jitsi # https://meet.jit.si/ShEx


 * Chair: Dimitris
 * Scribe: Kat
 
* ericP: FHIR and Wikidata are the big data examples. Wikidata current implementations are doing everything over SPARQL- which works because there are no bnodes. One interesting implementation would be to plug in Blazegraph. Test performance by grabbing copies of -- Andra can you grab Wikidata + Blazegraph?

* Andra: I need to look into that.

* ericP: HGT indexed for arcs out. Get good perf validating Wikidata data. Then we would have multiple solutions for Wikidata.

* Tom: Lars asked about the Jena build not working correctly. Is that resolved?

* Jeremie: Resolved- misunderstanding of the typing.

* Lars: I managed to adjust what Jeremie asked. Build works nicely.

* Dimitris: Did you publish it to Maven?

* Jeremie: I should put it on Maven in the coming week.

* ericP: Would you rather focus on rounding it out to pass edge tests like external shapes/ semantic actions or would you like to work on ShEx 2.1 features?

* Jeremie: Currently extension. 

* ericP: I have test cases for extension that I need to commit. 

* Dimitris: update of Shaclex to load from URL.

* ericP: Jeremie do you watch the lobby? https://gitter.im/shapeExpressions/Lobby

* Dimitris: Used for chat and getting more immediate feedback.
...Genewiki shex

* Andra: I did some work on the shapes we maintain for Genewiki, table of where shapes are run in the different implementations. Still a work in progress. Goal is to be able to run the shapes in their preferred impelementation. 
...I was maintaining schemas in 2 places. Now i use a submodule to transclude these in Shex schemas.

* Dimitiris: Example  of the submodule in use:
https://github.com/shexSpec/schemas/tree/master/Wikidata

* Dimitiris: placeholder for ShExC "cheat sheet" - https://shexspec.github.io/ShExC-cheat-sheet/

* Tom: Karen Coyle noted we don't have a specification for ShexC. I'm picturing we would create a 1-2 document you can print, reserved keywords, we need an introductory paragraph. Also some examples of their use. I won't have a chance to work on this for 2 weeks. I'm interested in comments and suggestions.

* ericP: We have a spec for ShexC. Not a stand-alone spec. The grammar provides mapping from ShexC to ShexJ. 

* Tom: Cheat sheet needs to say that there is a mapping. It is an issue if you're looking at a schema, it is not immediately obvious that it is shex and not turtle data. Don't want to overload the primer. 

* Dimitris: I like the idea. For each feature an example that is valid and one that is invalid.

* Dimitris: Peter's issue: https://github.com/shexSpec/shape-map/issues/14

* Harold: We need something in the unit tests to catch that.

* ericP: There is one.

* Harold: I'll take a look at that.
...we don't want to undo any capabilities that have proven useful or make it a lot harder to implement if the edge cases are really screwy edge cases. 
...Maybe I don't understand plane. 

* Dimitris: Strategy for issue response?

* Harold: 2 or more people review responses?


* Dimitris: https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/82

* ericP: Everyone who has written a shexC parser has written it with a real parser tool. Multiline comments shouldn't be a big additional burden.

* Harold: Coupling comments to part of the grammar. Are we going to do that here or is that what annotation is for?

*ericP: That's what annotations are for. I've been using them and they have been working. 

* Harold: results the same comment or no comment.

* ericP: no comments expressed in JSON.
... have annotations in a couple more places- outstanding request from Jesse. 


* Harold: Grammar updated for proposed 2.1 yet?

* ericP: not yet. 

* ericP: https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/80
I believe Iovka will be looking at this. 
