# ShEx Telecons

## Telecon 2019-03-13  Minutes

* Participants: Dimitris, ericP, Tom, Harold, Jérémie, Nishad, Majdal
* Regrets: Kat

Call in Zoom # https://zoom.us/j/441496948

* Chair: Dimitris
* Scribe: EricP, Dimitris

# Introductions:
* Tom: would like to introduce Nishad, met him in Japan, student at the University of Tsukuba, originally from India.
* Nishad: Happy to meet you all, I am a master's student. Developing a toolkit that pre-processes for developing Metadata application profiles in human and machine-friendly forms based on YAML. See how to incorporate ShEx 
* ... 
* Majdal: masters at american U in Beruit. urban planning and open source platform for archiving oral history.
* ... discussed with Tom how to model the platform with ShEx
* Dimitris: do you want to become members of the CG?
* [both]: already done it.


# Community Updates

* ericP: hisyntax highlighter for ShEx, make a Pull Request to the repository
* ... example: https://www.w3.org/2019/03/FHIR-ShEx/
* Harold: Andra, Tom and I want a syntax highlighter for Jupyter notebooks. Found a capricious highlighter for YAML.
* Dimitris: can we re-use the same highlighter?
* Harold: would assume so. Haven't gone into the guts of it yet.
* ... I use the YAML one to construct a basic model, which I then emit in ShEx.
* ... I haven't looked.
* ericP: if you see "hljs-*" in the CSS, you (probably) have highlight.js
* Andra: if you add it to Jupyter, will you have it as a Trojan Horse in GitHub?
* Harold: not sure; GitHub might be running its own interpreter
* ... On Friday, we'll have an updated demo of the [Jupyter notebood](https://github.com/biolink/biolinkml/blob/master/notebooks/examples.ipynb).  * ... The BioLink folks are starting to use ShEx. They're validating some of their data but it wasn't rigorous. Use case for EXTENDS; currently using named TripleExpressions.
* Andra: we got a peak into the wikidata schema server. We can store ShEx there.
* Andra: I built a Jenkins process which uses Harold's code to validate wikidata resources.
* ... Last month it only supported conformant/nonconformant. Now had reasons.
* ... See the Disease Ontology entities in the minutes.
* ... Wondering if I should update the ShapeExpression or make it a waterfall model with consecutive schemas.
* Harold: I've got some stuff to break in pyshex.
* Andra: now's a good time to break things.
* Andra: For my use case, I don't care about the tree getting to a specific error messate.
* ... I can imagine that for other use cases, the tree would be needed.

* Tom: Andra's helping me organize a hackday at the 2019 DCMI conference in Seoul. Theme is application profiles and ShEx.
* ... Hoping to have good papers on application profiles and follow that up on the hackday.
* ... There are several DCMI folks who will be there who are active in WikiData.

# EXTENDS Proposal

* ericP: the use of EXTENDS takes advantage of our partitioning semantics and is a great discriminator for ShEx.
* ... of particular interest are uses of EXTENDS where one party extends schemas authored/managed by another party.

# Next meeting

* Dimitris: at risk, will be in the US
