# ShEx Telecons

## Telecon 2019-01-16  Minutes

* Participants: Dimitris, Kat, Andra, ericP, Jeremie
* Regrets: 

Call in Zoom # https://zoom.us/j/441496948

* Chair: Dimitris
* Scribe: Kat

# Community Updates
## ShEx for food
* Andra: At SWAT4LS Tom, ericP and I made some ShEx for food.
## PyShex in Wikidata Integrator
* Andra: I have added PyShex to Wikidata Integrator
... adding another similar API call which runs over a manifest file.
... doing extensive tests on Wikidata using Jenkins.
... if you don't maintain Shape Exprs, they go out of data.
... in addition to managing data, I need to maintain the actual ShEx files.
... we use Jenkins to run the bots. it fails when there is data inconsistency.
... I hadn't worked on the Disease Shape for 4 months, now getting thousands of errors.
... hard to tell if it's a data or a model issue.
* ericP: So you have to look at them to determine.
* Andra: When there is a failure 
* ericP: Everytime the shex fails, you are getting advance notice before others who might be querying for the data. This is a good thing.
* Andra: Reactome is pretty stable. 
... am still working with other issues. need help on some Shape Exprs which crash the system.
... need to diagnose whether it's computing power or we need to factor/simpliy shapes.
* ericP: My implementation- repeated prop- non-max cardinalities on one of those- sends the system into a lengthy process
* Andra: Long time is not an issue- how does this relate to memory issues?
* ericP: My impl. 2 kinds of regex- lots of errors or more streamlined.
* Andra: That might be it.
... Wikidata Query Service has a query timeout of 60 seconds.
* ericP: ulimit
* Andra: parameter to kill if it is going to timeout would be very helpful
## WikiData adding a namespace for ShEx
* Andra: Other exciting news is that Wikidata shared their 2019 dev plan and ShEx support is on there

# Profiles Ontology for ShEx

* ericP: I'll see if I can to Reuben Verborgh about it.

**ACTION**: ericP to reply to Profiles email. There are 5 enumerated questions in the email.

# New Issues

* ericP: A few of us are interested in migrating a W3C wiki- list of impls, shexmap, formats, issues: 1.graph (dataset access) 2. stuff on UNIQUE to github? 

https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/90

