# ShEx Telecons

## Telecon 2019-02-27  Minutes

* Participants: ericP, Harold, Kat
* Regrets: Dimitris, Andra

Call in Zoom # https://zoom.us/j/441496948

* Chair: Kat
* Scribe: 

# Community Updates
* ESWC paper accepted


# Discus proposal from Eric on how extends work
* Eric: I worked on the Primer to document EXTENDS [here](https://https://rawgit.com/shexSpec/primer/extends/index.html#extension)
* ... Iovka and Jeremie had another approach in mind
* ... This [example](https://https://rawgit.com/shexSpec/primer/extends/vitals.html) is my explanation for how this works out in terms of requirements for end user developers
* Harold: In the world we are in- extensions are not known to the base classes.
* Eric: Compilation target vs. language designed for reuse
* Harold:  Is the semantics of EXTENDS the same as we had discussed?
* ERic: It hadn't been clarified. Now when you do an extension
* ... Extends is something you apply to a shape. That means you're making a reference to another shape.
* ... Iovka suggested giving it a place in a partition- if there is data that matches that partition and the rest of shape, then it would validate.
* Harold: Does EXTENDS work in FHIR? The FHIR rules say that any derivation of Observation also conforms to the rules of Observation- the difference in FHIR is that implicitly FHIR shapes are closed.
* Eric: Jose, Jeremie and I have implemented it by passing an overwrite graph (the partition). 
* ... If you can divy up triples between everything in the shape and in the extension then you satisfy it.
* Harold: FHIR requires that the entire set conforms to Observation. The entire set of triples must conform to all of the ancestors.
* Eric: Does Resource have a closed content model? 
* Harold: Building blocks in FHIR- group class "Domain Resource"- observation extends that.
* ... Domain Resource is open. 
* ... FHIR does not allow subclassing on resources.
* ERic: ShEx on its own does not have a way to express that Domain Resource is open but Observation is closed.
* Harold: How about RESTRICTS?
* Eric: Any place you have EXTENDS {}- you have effectively "restricts"- I want to extend this with nothing- throw in ANDs and there is your restriction.
* Harold: Let's use an example that is valid in FHIR to avoid confusing people.
* Eric: I hope this will give us a terse and 
* Harold: Did you take RESTRICTS out?
* Eric: Now I would say that I'm not sure- RESTRICTS is nice for people, but it complicates the lang because then there would be two ways to say the same thing.
* Harold: Philosophical decision- if you want terse, deterministic, precise- or small concise lang- then the goal of only having one way to say something is laudable. If that is not what you're doing- there are comprehension advantages to have syntactic sugar- like stuff.
* ERic: Several places where I had to write 'extra' in the complied version- I had to try to predict the future.
* Harold: My PyShEx still doesn't have IMPORTS. Where are you on releases?
* Eric: We asked for comments on 2.1


