# ShEx Telecons

## Telecon 2019-01-02  Minutes

* Participants: Dimitris, Kat, ericP, Jérémie
* Regrets: 

Call in Zoom # https://zoom.us/j/441496948

* Chair: Dimitris
* Scribe: Kat

### Community Updates

* Dimitris: : We are approaching 2 yrs as a community group. Thanks to everyone for keeping the group alive
* ericP: Thank you to Dimitris for serving as chair for 2 years!
* Kat: Tx to Dimitris for the SemWeb Awesome page. I started rounding up tools: https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Wikidata:WikiProject_ShEx
* Dimitris: Chunk resources by type- small PRs
* ericP: What would I want to review in a chunk.

* ericP: Clinical system. bunch of rules to advise doctors, etc. Working in RDF. Using ShEx to say here is the data and we want tot get to the drivers that talk to the repositories (such as EMR) rule bodies have ShEx- which drivers you need to execute in order to fire needed rule bodies. Both data drivers capabilities and the rule bodies needed data. Jose will join this work.
* ericP: I implemented Iovka and Jérémie's notion of how to implement extends. I wrote elisp to manipulate my reference JSON files. 
* ericP: Jérémie- are you interested in schema annotations on 2 different schemas to drive a data transformation?
* ericP: I did a quick example of ShExMap over XML https://hackmd.io/LLyV2-LeRiW0tSzXXzBQ8w

* Kat: Wikimedia hackathon in 2019 will be in Prague.
* ... Scholarships available to work on e.g. ShEx
* ... Application deadline 4 Jan.
* ... Can work with some Czech guys.

* ericP: Andra is running large-scale tests of testing conformance of GeneWiki entity data from Wikidata within the infrastructure on jenkins.sulab.org
* Dimitris: could be a good demo paper
* Kat: Andra and Greg are hoping to submit to a journal
* Dimitris: that wouldn't preclude a small demo paper which would be good for dissemination.

### Peter's comments on 2.1 release announcement

TODO:
- change "pass" and "fail" wording in spec to "conformant", "nonconformant".
- 
* ericP: shapemap vs. fixed shapemap

**PROPOSED**: fixed ShapeMap is an (unordered) set of (node, shapeExpr label pairs)
ericP: +1
kat: +1
Dimitris: +1
Jérémie: +1

**RESOLVED: fixed ShapeMap is an (unordered) set of (node, shapeExpr label pairs)**

### Priority of features for 2.2

1. EXTENDS
2. Datasets AKA GRAPH keyword
3. RDF Collections

ericP: propose 2.2 cut off at EXTENDS
... could add ShExMi annotation vocabulary for UML community.

### AOB
