# ShEx Telecons

## Telecon 2019-11-06


*Connection details*:
* Audio: [zoom](https://zoom.us/j/441496948) (`orElse` [jit.si](https://meet.jit.si/ShEx) `orElse` [Hangouts](http://tinyurl.com/ShEx-hangouts))
* Minutes: https://hackmd.io/TKlxxs67R1maCmhnbeEZTA?edit (not https://hackmd.io/uYVOpGcBQea8U5eSD1vY1w?both)
* Gitter: https://gitter.im/shapeExpressions/Lobby

*Admin:*
* Chairs: Kat
* Participants: Paul-Olivier Dehaye, Navino Evans, ericP
* Regrets: Nishad, Andra

* Scribe: ericP, Kat


## Introductions


Paul-Olivier, ericP and Nav were at Wikidatacon

ericP: long time RDF geek. worked on Turtle, SPARQL, ShEx
kat: Kat Thornton, filling in chair for Andra. Work at Yale, using ShEx for @@1

## Community Updates

Paul: using Wikidata. also using a wikibase instance for niche work.
... Have a wikiproject which is the interface between wikidata and my base instance.
... See ShEx as a way to maintain coherence between the two.
... Expect I can use ShEx to transform to map between the two.
ericP: Mundane way shex can help, make sure mapping this bidirec
tionally
... ShEx Map:Take 2 schemas, annotate the parts of the data structure and can then transform
Paul: How different is this from 
ericP: If I have 2 representations of something (ex foaf and schema.org) and then I write 2 schemas for those, and write shexmap annotations into those, you can validate instance data as a foaf shape and then tell it to materialize, and get the schema.org variable bindings- to materialize a graph of that
Kat: ok to share your wikibase instance?
Paul: it's registered in the wikibase instances
... I'm interested in corporate privacy policies
... my wikibase has contacts for privacy officers.
... I need to maintain coherence between my wikibase and wikidata
... I also have MMUDs
Kat: Nav, would you share your experiences of WDCon?
Nav: I didn't get in as deep with ShEx as I'd like.
... I'm SPARQL-proficient and that's tranferrable.
... I see ShEx as ground-breaking power but need to make it available to the users.
... I mostly working with John Cummings at UNESCO.
... most of our challenge comes from modelling.
... data structures diverge over time.
... ShEx seems like an ideal tool for that.
... Need to bridge between folks who know how to author ShEx and those who need to use it.
... Folks are unsure how to use wikidata 'cause they're not sure how data will change over time.
Kat: happy to hear your experiences. 
ericP: Nav, you were saying that there are divergent models being used in WD. 
... Have people tried to use UML?
Nav: No these are non-technical discussions.
ericP: Writing shex schemas has been helpful for other communities to get concrete about there models and support discussions.
Nav: This sounds like what we need- end users might like to look at diagrams. 
... I'd like to get comments on the RFC draft. 
... How can people with complementary skill sets work together to write schemas? Visual models for some people, shex schemas for others. 
... Draft RFC: https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/User:John_Cummings/RFC
Paul: The core of what we do in personaldata.io is give people more control over their data. 
... Wikibase is useful because it allows me to model with people and then generate a graph. 
... This is Uber's data model (mock-up). This is the way you build meaning together. 
... We can improve it after discussion with the drivers for instance. 

https://query.personaldata.io/embed.html#%23defaultView%3AGraph%0A%0APREFIX%20pdio%3A%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fwiki.personaldata.io%2Fentity%2F%3E%0APREFIX%20pdiot%3A%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fwiki.personaldata.io%2Fprop%2Fdirect%2F%3E%0APREFIX%20pdiop%3A%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fwiki.personaldata.io%2Fprop%2F%3E%0APREFIX%20pdiops%3A%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fwiki.personaldata.io%2Fprop%2Fstatement%2F%3E%0APREFIX%20pdiopq%3A%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fwiki.personaldata.io%2Fprop%2Fqualifier%2F%3E%0A%0ASELECT%20%3Forigin%20%3ForiginLabel%20%3Fdestination%20%3FdestinationLabel%20%3Frgb%20%3FedgeLabel%20WHERE%0A{%0A%20%20%20%0A%20%20%20pdio%3AQ1070%20pdiot%3AP129%20%3Forigin.%0A%20%20%20pdio%3AQ1070%20pdiot%3AP129%20%3Fdestination.%0A%20%20%20pdio%3AQ1070%20pdiop%3AP130%20%3Fassociation_statement.%0A%20%20%20%3Fassociation_statement%20pdiopq%3AP131%20%3Forigin.%0A%20%20%20%3Fassociation_statement%20pdiopq%3AP132%20%3Fdestination.%0A%20%20%20%3Fassociation_statement%20pdiops%3AP130%20%3Fedge.%0A%20%20%20SERVICE%20wikibase%3Alabel%20{%20bd%3AserviceParam%20wikibase%3Alanguage%20%22%5BAUTO_LANGUAGE%5D%2Cen%22.%20}%0A}%0A

ericP: ShEx can do this, plus cardinality and more data type info.
Paul: Internally Uber does the same for maintaining their own data model.
ericP: Can you get your hands on that model?
Paul: There is Josh S who gives talks on this
https://twitter.com/joshsh/status/1184872593263742982?s=20
ericP: The reason I was talking about UML, I want to take advantage of UML tools. 
... Several patterns for how to represent blocks to people (lacking: UML does not cover disjunction) we could use it to help people understand models. 
... The UML way is blocks and relations that connect the blocks. In Paul's example graph for uber, you're capturing the relations but not the internal structure (what do you find if you derefernce driver)
Paul: This is just one view. I can generate others.
ericP: The next level of detail would be to transform these nodes into boxes (UML style)
Paul: Depends on context and who is in the room.
... A fragment query, modify through shex, to layer on the visualization of my choice.
ericP: What is the next attempt at visualization for Wikidata people? 
... Given that you have the ability to create visualizations, what kind will work for people?
Paul: I labeled the edges with text- Wiki infrastructure would allow me to label nodes 
... and to annotate new edge nodes- I think this would be a useful viz. 
ericP: Traditional relation object that would reflect the statments in Wikidata?
Paul: Yes, there is work to figure out how to label the properties from Wikibase.
Nav: Maybe using something people have had exposure to would help, 
... but what we need is a viz that we can present to the Wikidata community, and then let's say we need to specify the boundary of the model. 
... If we were to say that an Author should have a date of birth, I'm not sure how we visualize this- but what we need is to be able to show different levels of requirement, must, should, would be nice. 
... The main thing would be to have a way to convert a shex schema to a diagram, and then also be able to go from diagram to schema. 
... Diagrams, color-coding, boundaries of the schema. Would be nice to expand/collapse viz as new shapes are imported.
ericP: Andra and Kat both write schemas that are parts of networks.
... I'm thinking squares to capture shape attributes, color to indicate cooccurance,relations between entities. 
... When you have an attribute in a shape that is a reference to another shape, I could have a square thing that show @author- that can pop out, derefernce author shape and renders a new square.
Nav: This aspect of ShEx that allows for interlocking schemas, 
... for occupations done as extensions with clear boundaries,
... and to be able to create a viz of this would be powerful for supporting shared understanding.
Paul: This sounds realistic, but you are solving a problem is harder than necessary. 
... If the goal is to get more WD people on board I would argue that you don't need to go to viz, target presentation would be a wikibase item itself. 
... Project a shex entity schema from the wikibase language to an item.
... How do you express schemas in terms of a wikibase item? From this we can decide what options do we have for generating graphs.
ericP: Your goal here is to use the wikibase interface to edit schemas. 
Paul: Exactly
ericP: If I have an entity and I change its name, add a location, is that parallel to doing that with schemas where I get to add a new property and add a new data type to that property?
Nav: It seems like there is overlap.
ericP: You could get a long way (for simple shapes) that would use the existing editor.
Nav: There are already datatype options in the editor. Wiki template, refernce shex shema in the template that would then render/populate a wikidata item.
ericP: Popular idiom in web-based tooling to have markdown and a preview button. 
... Could you have an interface that would go from E42 to see textual version, switch tabs to entity editor view of the schema and maybe guidance backed by SPARQL then later this could be expanded to another tab with a viz.
Nav: That sounds like the dream solution to me. Most people won't be able to interact with E namespace, alternatives would help more people get into this work.
ericP: Labra uses a library that allows for 
Paul: This is again a harder problem than you might need to solve. 
... Others could generate gadgets and user scripts. 
... You want people in the community to own these concepts and own these tools. 
... Should be community-driven.
ericP: I thought the tab interface would line up with what you were describing?
Nav: I agree it should be community driven, but this interface is a future vision that is valuable.
Paul: We all agree- is it wikidata item-like or are they actual wikidata items.
... Many people use intermediary tools to create items. 
... If these schemas can be stored as items we could take advantage of all of the existing work people have contributed.
Nav: Are you talking about items for schemas?
Paul: Seems like the community doesn't like this. 
... But how about a Wikibase that is purpose-built for managing entity schemas?
Nav: Property pages - I see what you mean- there could be a lower hanging fruit way.
... If there is something easy to showcase this, get people using it. In the long run of course it would need to be fully integrated. 

Paul's example of a wikibase item for a schema:
https://wiki.personaldata.io/wiki/Item:Q1913 
# EntitySchema for E130
ericP: We would need to extend teh expressivity to do this. 
... I'm nervous about having something that supports simple structures- we would need to be sure it can capture the more expressive schemas that people have already been using.
Paul: Yes, I agree we should not reduce our ability to take advantage of the expressivity of shex. 
... But this would be the quickest way to get to adoption with the community.
ericP: Would either of you be interested in prototyping this?
Nav: I'd be happy to be involved.
Paul: I'd be happy to prototype interfaces. 
... I think I could expose what I described. 
... I also have some questions about how we can improve the tools we already have.


Paul's list of potential usages of Shex on/near Wikidata:
* extraction from openrefine of the schema partS in Shex
* various roundtrips between wikidata and quickstatements using shex
* various roundtrips between wikidata and GoogleSheets using shex
* cradle-like tool to generate form, based on a Shex


Remark/question: I modified the Shex tutorial on Wikidata https://www.wikidata.org/w/index.php?title=Wikidata:WikiProject_Schemas/Tutorial to use a new template called {{ShEx2}}, to create a manifest for 
ShEx2 Online Validator. 
Problems: 
* the Validator seems to expect the manifest to be stored somewhere. Can we get this "somewhere" from Wikidata?
* the query (or rather a fragment) can be added to the manifest explicitly, while this is not the case for the schema. 
* "https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/EntitySchema:E130" --> "check entities against this schema" 

ShEx Lobby -- https://gitter.im/shapeExpressions/Lobby
