# ShEx Telecons

## Telecon 2019-10-23 Minutes

* Participants: Andra, Tom (text-only), Kat, Nishad, Eric, Dimitris
* Expected participants: 

## 2.1 release
 * https://docs.google.com/document/d/1SsT3Qy20Ab3bnLiEdza_NK2BNLsbXpOOcq3QwAx5Krw/edit
 * ericP: https://rawgit.com/shexSpec/primer/extends/

## Community updates
Elixer and Wikimedia: proposed BYODs that will involve ShEx

andra:
... In Korea, I mostly worked on installation infrastructure, less ShEx
... Nishad and Tom did lots of ShEx in Korea
... in Japan, we set up ShEx tools (Sublime, Jeremie's tools, etc.)
... it would help to have a Japanese version of the Primer?

Kat: how much would a professional translator cost?

Andra: no idea; there's a translator wiki but it's more for software

ericP: maybe we can do a good-enough and ask the community to translate

Andra: we could fork it into the wikibase.

Nishad: in the Seoul hack-day, I demo'd generated ShEx.
... I made a github-page-based version -- generates ShEx from an Application Profile
... accepts CSV or YAML

Tom: it was well-recieved.
... discussed the simple model for Application Profiles.
... we're making progress which is good 'cause we need to deliver for SWIB in Novenber.

Nishad: we will have a spread-sheet-based model. need an ANTLR parser.

ericP: micro-parsing from cells in the spreadsheet?

Nishad: yep.

Tom: if we don't need TABs, we can parse from CSV.

Eric: Parse something from cells - is that a sublanguage of ShEx?

Nishad: Well-structured spreadsheet.  We need to have a language-independent parser.

Andra: Jose student working on ShExML - ShEx mapping language.

Nishad: We can write parser in Python.  If we have a nice BNF-like thing.

Eric: You would be writing an ANTLR grammar...

Nishad: ...for the spreadsheet, so we can map elements to ShExC.

Eric: Challenge: that parser is dealing with two [] at once.

Nishad: Nice structure in CSV, so there is a grammar.  If there is a grammar, 
better to write the grammar first than to hardcode the parser.

Eric: Have done this before with JSON sublanguages - wanted to run some YACC-like 
parser.  Worked reasoanbly well.  But there are lots of CSV libraries.  Might 
take longer to get something done with ANTLR than working with...

Nishad: I'm looking at the long run.  Easy to start with a grammar...

Eric: ...a grammar for CSV (or TSV, which would be easier to manage).
In order to do something useful, must develop handlers for different
languages.  You get back parse tree but then you need to process that 
parse tree in a particular language.  Nice thing of working with a 
YACC-like language: without writing language-specific, you have at 
least a validating parser.  If you write the grammar, effectively 
you get multiple implementations without much work.  How do I implement 
ANTLR to get validating parser in Java?  Walk through the parse tree.

Nishad: We have ShExJ - better than writing from scratch.

Eric: If update ANTLR grammar, change the BNF, yields a different 
parse tree, then you need to go and touch all of the language-specific 
code that consumes that parse tree.  Editing not just the BNF but also 
the language-specific implementations.

Nishad: Templates are limited, but simple demo of mapping elements.
Did one with Jinja and Liquid for Jekyll pages - for simple application 
profiles.

Andra: Wikidata Phabricator boards:
* Wikiproject ShEx
* Team developing entity 

Kat: Like the idea of monitoring Phabricator as a group.  Willing to work 
with Andra to close some issues on Github.

Eric: How many issue trackers are there?  Python, Java, Scala implementations.
Emacs.  My guess: if we want to track everything, in all implementns and tools, 
would need to write some sort of console that aggregates on one page.

Andra: Can do in a Github project - did in Gene Wiki.  Will come up with 
proposal for next meeting.  Needed - otherwise, missing things.

Kat: Not just Phabricator and Github.  Jeremie - wonderful tool - have 
some minor issues to post in Gitlab.

Eric: Even if Github aggregates well, would need to cover Phab, GH, GL.
Better to code up a dashboard than to.

Andra: Are we keeping this time slot?  Some of the active people cannot 
make it - Lucas (Wikimedia) and Jose. We miss Harold.  Do a Doodle?

Eric: When meetings not regular, attendance suffers.

Jeremie: Contract thru end-2019, but on break for some of November.
Iovka will take on the application.

Eric: ShEx in NIH grant at Mayo.

