# ShEx Telecons

## Telecon 2019-03-27  Minutes

* Participants: Harold, Nishad, Kat, ericP, Jeremie
* Regrets:

Call in Zoom # https://zoom.us/j/441496948

* Chair: ericP
* Scribe: Kat


# EXTENDS

* ericp: [Case for extends]
(https://rawgit.com/shexSpec/primer/extends/vitals.html) use case is FHIR- makes frequent use of repeated properties
* Harold: Why do you need to do closures? I'd be inclined to leave ABSTRACT out of this.
* ericP: The use of ABSTRACT - marks a base class as vapid
* Harold: When explaining EXTENDS- it might be helpful to leave out ABSTRACT for the explanation
* Jeremie: EXTRA in compiled version- why isn't there EXTRA in the other?
* ericP: I should say analagous instead of compiled. 
* Harold: Will you confirm if the use case in the biolink notebook is supported by extends?
* ericP: I don't think so.
* Harold: I think this is a common idiom we will get.
* ericP: shape you extend, person base that doesn't have a req for type arc and then friendly person that does have a type arc for friendly person.
* Harold: THe community will have this need: I'm giving you an instance of "friendly person" does this conform?
* ericP: shapemap
* Jeremie: Difficulty when you validate and you get an error- then going through the heirarchy of EXTENDS and through all the partitions for the purpose of error reporting. Painful to debug and figure out why it failed.
* ericP: All of us have been frustrated by the error reporting. Not sure the 'compiled' version route would improve that.
* Harold: I've thrown on a bug flag where throw in some diagnostic information that seems to help
* ericP: Repairs - other way to look at error reporting plus how to fix
* Harold: I need to know what I need in order to implement EXTENDS
* ericP: We need to sort out the discriminating type issue

# Address comments on ShEx 2.1

