## Telecon 2019-12-04


    Chairs: Andra
    Present: Andra, Tom, Nishad, Eric, John
    Regrets:

#### Introductions
John Samuel: Assistent Professor  Lyon, Engineering School - working on Wikidata and ShEx.

#### Community updates
Tom and Karen Coyle: Gave a talk at the SWIB conference. There is a DCMI group focussing on Application profiles. Tom presented a jupyter notebook (https://github.com/dcmi/dcap/blob/master/prototypes/wikidata_painting/E130.ipynb) that generated a schema of E130 of painting from a tabular input form. 
There are lots of people who are comfortable with tabular input. Tom and Karen would like to assist people in generating application profiles on wikidata. 
Once things get complex you might as well learn shex.
SWIB19 presentation featuring Jupyter notebook of Python script for generating Wikidata Entity Schema E130 https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/EntitySchema:E130 from a tabular (spreadsheet) format. It seems like to be cleaner to ShExJ in stead of ShExC. 

Nishad: Published a paper at the conference on capturing meta data on application profiles. The Knowledge Graph (KG) community is far far away of the concept of ShEx. We have a mission to create awareness in that community. The other concern is how to Knowledge Graph (KG) http://jist2019.openkg.cn/
Eric: oh, i started on a schema for ODRL but will be quick to abandone it if someone else has already done it Re ShEx over knowledge graphs, i buit a webapp that used ShEx to validate cytoscape graphs. Andra may remember that.

Missing a library for GO and ShEx. Any pointers. 

John: Made a Malayalam ShEx. We would like to use multilingual ShEx to describe the schema in their own language. If you compare infoboxes you can see that different communities use different attributes to describe things.
Suggestion for Tom. Can you simplify the tabular input to a quickstatements format used in Wikidata?
Tom: I think that would be great if you could either join in the discussion of the DCMI group.


