# ShEx Telecons

## Telecon 2019-06-05  Minutes

* Participants: Dimitris, Nishad, Eric, Andra, Jérémie 
* Regrets: 

Call in Zoom # https://zoom.us/j/441496948

* Chair: Dimitris
* Scribe: 


# Community updates

 * Andra: 65 schemas made it to Wikidata. Gene ShEx schema cought changes in data
 * .. discussion of findability of the schema. discussion to make a property Shape Expression for class vs wikidata Item for each schema. No strong opinion.
 * Eric: guy with handle MisterSynergy has been pusing with import and use of triple expression references. I feel he is prototyping the network of inter-depentent schemas that we want to see florish.
 * .. an issue that he presented that we have very conservative rules from import, e.g. if ??? results in error and in his use cases he would like to see the ???
 * ... that's quite doable
 * ... The company I work for wants us to see how we deal with versioning. Andra has similar issues, can you create a simple issue. e.g. detect sparql queries that no longer work because of schema changes or re-write queries on the fly.

https://www.wikidata.org/w/index.php?title=EntitySchema:E37&action=history

 * Dimitris: there is textual diff, though that's senstive to whitespace changes
 * ... there's OWL diff: https://github.com/protegeproject/owl-diff, http://owl.cs.manchester.ac.uk/research/diff/
 * ... MisterSynergy's use of triple expression references might also be useful for detectect changes in triple expression.

 * Jeremie: no feedback on our wikdiata tools. developing/debugging a V2. will publicise.

 * Andra: Kat presenting ShEx: https://twitter.com/pgroth/status/1136198318151933952 


## Discuss ShEx 2.1 publication

 * Dimitris: we asked pfps for a review within two weeks a few weeks ago.
 * Eric: tempted to make a change in the spec related to the import issue mentioned above. Jeremie how do you handle this?
 * Jeremie: ??? file directory
 * Eric: can you do this over http? because Wikidata everything is over HTTP
 * Dimitris: Is this a breaking change?
 * ericP: "backward-compatible" break. permits schemas that were rejected before.
 * Dimitris: will thge update set us back.
 * ericP: very easy change.
 * Jeremie: [ ... can change easily ... ]
 * Eric: will update the implementation reports, would like to do that before we release 2.1

PROPOSAL: start comes only from the schema that being examined. There are no conflicts with start in imported schemas as the import ignores start directives.

 * ericP: +1
 * Jérémie: +1
 * Andra: +1
 * Dimitris: +1


PROPOSAL: update IMPORT text in 2.1, get implementation reports. write to semantic-web@w3.org "Due to user feedback on Wikidata, we've updated this part of the spec, please review that section in the next two weeks. We will finalize 2.1 after that."

 * ericP: +1
 * Dimitris: +1
 * Jérémie: +1
 * Andra: +1
 * Nishad: +1


## Progress on EXTENDS
 

 * ericP: I had a conversation with Labra a couple days ago. 

ACTION: ericP to pester someone at OMG about EXTENDS and @foo vs. @foo or any descendent.

