## Telecon 2017-11-07 Minutes

 * Participants: Kat, Tom, Eric, Andra
 * Regrets: Dimitris

Call in Jitsi # https://meet.jit.si/ShEx
 * Chair: Eric
 * Scribe: Tom

last minutes: https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/blob/master/meetings/20171024-minutes.md

Agenda: https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/blob/master/meetings/20171107-agenda.md

## Pending actions

### Eric  work on a prototype for extending shapes

Eric: Have a branch, subshape: stated mission: meet use case of extending one shape with another.  Implemented years ago in the fancy ShEx demo.
Was easy: had syntax, and semantics were like including the expression of the other shape.  But since ShEx 1, shape declarations have gone from 
shapes to shape expressions (can have AND OR...).  Semantics that would have been simple in ShEx 1 are more complex in ShEx 2.  What would we 
want it to do when [example extending foaf person with employee number].  Can't just include.

https://github.com/shexSpec/shexTest/commit/2f667485b1756880d6fa210a836ecdc4c7b51481

### Dimitris to investigate on Confluence requirements extraction (for ShEx on MarkDown)
   * (not suitable for ShEx, [custom page template creation](https://confluence.atlassian.com/doc/blog/2015/08/how-to-document-product-requirements-in-confluence))
   
   Nothing to report.
   
### Eric to make a syntactic sugar suggestion for issue "[No way to say "any language-tagged string" #74](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/74)"

Nothing to report.

# Agenda

## Community updates

### Updates from DCMI sessions

 * Tom: ericP and I presented ShEx to DCMI conference in DC.
Technology worked perfectly. Used Zoom.
Presentation style that worked was the [try it] links.
Someone asked what EXTRA meant and ericP cliked the [try it] link, edited the data, validated, edited the schema, validated, and people were quite engaged
You rented the whole seat but you'll only use THE EDGE!!!
The feedback was so good, that we'd like to make a YouTube video of it.
 * Kat: 1+ idea for webinar or video!
The 30 min talk covered all the right points.
so we want to do a screencast.

http://shexspec.github.io/talks/2017/10-27-dcmi-tombaker

 * Eric: Got good feedback from Gregg too. Presentation went well because it was clear and interactive.

 * Kat: When I looked at the DCMI website, it looked like your session was a separate event [iirc - ED]
 * Tom: we were in a day-long day on application profiles.
There were talks about BibFrame which was talking about replacing 60s-era formats as linked data.
In other sessions, they talked about AP requirements.
Ours was on JSON-LD and ShEx.
 * Kat: how many in the audience?
 * Tom: guessing 50-60.
 * ericP: and apparently influential in the library community,
 * Tom: LD4P [lists libraries] were all in the room.
Having the presentation in GETable HTML and having [try it] links worked well.

 * Updates on @Wikidata Con 2017 session
   Screencast: https://media.ccc.de/v/wikidatacon2017-10032-using_shape_expressions_for_data_quality_and_consistency_in_wikidata
   Etherpad: https://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/WikidataCon-68

 * Kat: We did collaborative talk - sounds like similar dynamic - Wikidata people, DanBri.

 * Andra: Quite a bit of interest.  Talk is online as video (see above).  Takeaway: quite a few people in wikidata community keen to 
adopt if it can fit Wikidata templates.  Curating the applicable shapes.  Takehome: Should take copyright number out of the slides.
Got question: Is ShEx still maintained?  Because copyright of 2010 (refers to HTML framework).   Annoying SHACL question, taking 
valuable time.

 * Eric: ShEx wins on:
good testing
multiple implementations (more open-source implementations)
open, inspectable 
Standards are just a popularity contest.  Most of the process is about asking the community what they want.  Rehearse this 
and get it down to three minutes.

 * Tom: Want to put the ShEx Primer into a Jupyter notebook.

 * Kat: What if we work towards Jupyter notebook before Wiki Cite, BIBFRAME, Biomedical.

 * Andra: Got it running, but new to Jupyter, so unsure.

**ACTION**: Andra to change the world with an exciting ShEx Jupyter Notebook kernel

 * Eric: In DCMI discussion, notion of a DSL: Karen Coyle wants way to go from ShEx to some sort of Markdown (or human-facing) or the 
other way, at least with a subset of ShEx.  I proposed to reuse what is there in FHIR to describe.
https://shexspec.github.io/talks/2017/10-27-dcmi-tombaker/#(17)
 - not quite what Gregg was doing.  Uldis Bojars lab wants something like this.  Maybe steal stuff from FHiR w.r.t. tables - tooling is 
 miserable because monolithic, but if someone were to work with them to componentize, would harden their tool chain as well.  
 Would get UML-like diagrams and cool HTML tables.  Also DDI alliance folks, work on metadata, social sciences (surveys, censuses) - 
 realized it applies also to clinical data - they use Drupal to generate data model then split out XMI for UML (underspecified...).
 Another path: UML editor, use DDI to spit out ShEx.  Their governance process involves everyone editing Drupal store, which 
 spits out XMI.  In practice, interoperability... Run through XSLT to generate ShEx?
 
  * Kat: Maybe my lack of understanding of DDI, but could they start publishing RDF and telleveryone what the ShExC is?
 
  * Eric: They are like FHIR - have authoritative representation and one product is ShExC.
 
  * Kat: Need to talk about DDI within Wikidata, but what is the best short path for getting DDI into Wikidata?
 
  * Eric: Use ShEx as vector for getting... XML schemas turn into ShEx schemas.  ShEx on the left from DDI folks.
 
  * Kat: Would like to help from Wikidata side.
 
 ## Discuss ShEx DSL / ShEx embedding in documents

Tom: Comments on the book?

 * [Open Issues for v2.1](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+milestone%3A2.1)
 * AOB 
