

## Telecon 2017-05-05 Minutes

 * Participants: Dimitris, Jesse, Kat, Gregg, Andra, Eric, Tom, Harold
 * Regrets: -Lars

Call in Hangouts # http://tinyurl.com/ShEx-hangouts

 * Chair: Dimitris
 * Scribe: ericP

Agenda: https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/blob/master/meetings/20170505-minutes.md (actually 20170505...)

## Open Actions
 * Dimitris (Still) delayed on shacl/shex comparison. Jose
  Dimitris: delayed, but Jose has already drafted something and we can probably ask to use his analysis



## API -related Issues
 * Eric: We want to have some compatibility between different implementatons and we want to know how to interpret the results and know how something suceeds or fails
 * Gregg: WebIDL can be compiled to different languagages
 * Eric: uses promises and Javascript is the most prominent language. Do we want to have all languages the WebIDL compiles to or that validation takes as input a schema and a shapeMap and returns back results. These are the extreme ends.
We need to figure out the sweet place of standardization to make ShEx most usable

 * Gregg: my intro to WebIDL was our use in JSON-LD.
we use it here as we used it in JSON-LD, with promises et al.
we can take this as more of a description.
my implmentation follows this pretty much,
an objet-oriented language would have a different API
Ruby has something like promises but it doesn't follow the exact JS promises interface.
to be "conforming", the author has asserted that they pass the test suite.
in my case, i read the manifest and test whether the results match.
there may be a WebIDL test that validates the returned promises.

 * Dimitris: from my understanding, we don't wnat to implement WebIDL in detail, but use it as a guide.
 * Gregg: that's my inclination.
... WebIDL is meant to provide conformance with Promises.
 * ericP: so WebIDL only applies to the javascritpt guy. i get what's going on here.
 * Dimitris: so does someone in Java have to implement Promises?
* Gregg: i see the details of a WebIDL interface as being more suggestive than normaitve.
... given the test inputs, an implementation will return the precise results
... if you're running a test that returns an error with a code, you need to return that code.
... in my implementation, I use an exception.
... if i had to use promises, it wouldn't fit with other ruby libs.

* Harold: I am used in an IDL where ... it's the text that tells me what's the output. e.g. sh

* Gregg: if you look at the source, there's a bug in respec.
... when i call validate, it returns a promise.
* Harold: and a promise is an abstract type.
... the IDL doesn't give me a signature, e.g. yeah/ney vs. a book
* Gregg: a promise has two callbacks for pass and fail
* Harold: how do i connect a shape result with a promise as in Appendix A?
* Gregg: [looking at validate step 8]
... the promise is fullfilled using ShapeResults.
... we also send ShapeResults on error.
* Harold: why are we using the formality of a signature when we don't get machine-readable definitions of success and failure parms? [[ had to improv a bit, ericP]]
... if I have to go to the text to understand the invocations of Promise.pass/fail...
* Gregg: I think you'd like to see the signature for the promise that's return
... if you look at the source, the promise is passed a shapemap.
... respec appears to be eating part of it but even so, i'm not sure what's in the source is sufficient.
* Harold: you'd think someone would have written java,python,ruby language bindings for WebIDL.
... is ShapeMap a question, and answer, or both?
... if i say nodeA conforms to shapeS, is it a premise or an question?
* Gregg: i think it's a question for input and answer for results, where it has an outcome and a reason.
* Harold: can it be supplemented?
* Gregg: i can't see why not.
* Harold: [presents federation case]
... I think the types can be the same but we need to discriminate between questions and answers.
* Jesse: I'd like to have a long-running ShapeMap that can be updated with validations.
* Gregg: Shape Results should work here.
... I tried to describe it like an extension of ShapeMap.
* Harold: maybe we can provide discriminating names for ShapeMaps as Questions, vs. Results
* ericP: i never had a name to discriminate between questions, premises, and results.
* Harold: should it be a list or a set of tuple.
* Jesse: I was thinking of keeping a list of Node/Shape pairs with extra state saying "question", "known".
* Harold: then we can also add known True vs. known False.
... I'm a little uncomfortable 'cause most of the info is in text.
... I can click through ShapeMap to know what it is.
... Also, there's nothing in USVString which says it's an IRI
* Gregg: that also comes from WebIDL.
... in my impl, i need to know whether it's an IRI vs. ShExC.

* Gregg: since we're a CG, we can probably use something other than WebIDL, but I'd like to use it and call for expert help
* Harold: +1

* Eric: If there is a mediatype for URI it could solve our problem ...@Eric can you fill?)
* Gregg: In Ruby I have an RDF Graph type that gived a BGP api
* Eric: we can also back off on this and say: given a schema and a graph you get back a result (not even promises) you get back results
* Harold: You proposed two functions to ...???... 
* Gregg:  a URL is usefull because you can get back a media type
* Jesse: can we generate Java, Ruby, etc with WebIDL that we can reuse?
* Gregg: There is a mozilla project that can do that, it not a good fit for Ruby
* Dimitris: do we wnat to do this for 2.0, or leave it for 2.1 and just have a really lightweight description of the input and output?
* Gregg: the spec was too vague before.
... we could say "this is suggestive of what the inputs and outputs, we 
* Eric: if we do that we might want to forget promises

* Jesse: I think it would be good if someone could read this API without reading the rest of the doc.
... it should bind to their native language
* Gregg: part of the value of Promises is that it covers exceptions
* Jesse: but in Java you can say what kinds of errors are thrown, as in other languages. what's the counterpart in WebIDL?
* Gregg: you can specify error codes.
... in ruby, i would catch an exception and reject the promise passing that code.
* Jesse: but if you do that, you'd break the ruby coding style.
* Gregg: yeah, i'd over both, promises as a shim.
* Jesse: that's 'cause in Javascript, most error handing goes through Promises
* Harold: if the graph doesn't conform, does it reject?
* Gregg: reject.
* Harold: i'm surprised that the answer would be called "failed" if the answer were "no".
... it's a philosophy issue, are we validating whether the shape is right or wrong or are we asking if it conforms?
... i'd expect that rejected would be "i couldn't peform it" and accepted would include "yes" and "no"
* Gregg: i think we started out with validating the conformance as conformance is defined in section 5
... programatically, you can discriminate by the error passed.
* Dimitris: what other errors are there?
* Gregg: ... ... syntax error
* Dimitris: could we say that the WebIDL is defined for a well-formed schema and graph?
* Harold: "i couldn't get to the inernet" or "i don't read ShExC", ... i think we have a way to say "i couldn't do it".
... it's a common case
* Dimitris: +1, result is yes's and no's, failure is an inability to run

* Eric: what I am imagining is that after validate you get back a result that includes yes's & no's, if we do not use promises, failures could be undefined state
* Gregg: with promises you don't need to do anything more
* Eric: I use try/catch around promises in JS to avoid. If we did you a promise 
.. otherwise we can say that the function returns yes and nos and then undefined errors

* Harold: there's two orthogonal states ...???
... pending is very important when e.g. you deal with federated queries. a question I do not know the answer yet.
... I think promises is a good idiom but we need to wrap it correctly

* andra: Likes "pending" as result as well. Or "incomplete"

* Eric: Here's my concert for promises. It is very clear to do this in JS but cannot see how this can be implemented in C. How can we take advantage of the fact that we standardize this?
* Harold: If you do it synchronous it doesn't help much but if you do asynchronously you can get pending results.

* Eric: We do not say exactly how you do it but we give you a loose model. It is a more quick way to explain it to someone

* Kat:I have to leave the meeting early. Thanks  everyone.

[Glad we could keep you entertained]

* Tom: Must leave (17:08)...

* Gregg: The actual interface in the HTML source uses a parameterized Promise:
```
[Constructor]          interface ShExProcessor {            Promise<ShapeResults> validate(              (USVString or RDFGraph) schema,              (USVString or RDFGraph) graph,              ShapeMap shapeMap,              optional ShExOptions? options);          };
```
https://www.w3.org/2001/sw/wiki/ShEx/API

