## Telecon 2017-05-26 Minutes

 * Participants: Jesse, Gregg, Eric, Tom, Andra (sometimes)
 * Regrets: -Kat, Andra

Call in Hangouts # https://zoom.us/j/307686876
 * Chair: ericP
 * Scribe: Gregg

Agenda: https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/blob/master/meetings/20170526-minutes.md

## Open Actions

 * Dimitris (Still) delayed on shacl/shex comparison. Jose
 * Dimitris: delayed, but Jose has already drafted something and we can probably ask to use his analysis

## Announcements

 * Andra and Kat had a ShEx hackathon at wikicite https://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/WikiCite17Day2Session3B
 * Welcome Lucas Werkmeister - making patches to ShExJS, so made him collaborator - will join CG
 * The Data Shapes WG has decided to create a coompact syntax <https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-data-shapes-wg/2017May/0035.html>. It looked a lot like ShEx, so Tom objected. From a process perspective, we don't look too hard at such requests, but because this was in direct conflict with ShEx, the director did not approve until Tom is satisfied. Tom became our "avatar" to W3M.
 * Tom: The point was that it was one syntax bound to two models. I argued that the two needed to be different enough that they could not be mistaken for each other. There have been a number of proposals; every day the syntax of SHACLC changes; punctuation and keywords change, and haggle about when it is different enough to be different from ShExC. My understanding of the current proposal is that it changes some punctuation and keywords in SHACLC and does not requere changes in ShExC. Under the circumstances, it's hard to argue that they are the same; it looks like they've met that requirement of chaning SHACLC syntax enough so that it can't be confused with ShExC, either visually or in processing.

    * Holger's proposal: change ";"s to "."
    * Sandro's proposal: that plus prefix SHACL shapes with "SHACL" <https://www.w3.org/mid/7d237518-a561-7c86-d7cb-bbfe744055b0@w3.org>
 * Eric: Largely, people were content with Sandro's changes (other than Holger).

**PROPOSAL**: "ShEx CG accepts the publication of the SHACL Compact Syntax with Sandro's proposal of a SHACL keyword and Holger's proposal of  changing ";" s to "."s. <https://www.w3.org/mid/7d237518-a561-7c86-d7cb-bbfe744055b0@w3.org>
Tom: proposal could be simpler to make it unambiguous. - https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-data-shapes-wg/2017May/0035.html. Having both link, changing of keyword and punctuation, that makes it clear.
 * ericP: +1
 * Tom: +1
 * Jesse: +1
 * Gregg: +0
 * Andra (via ericP): +1

**RESOLVED.**

 * Jesse: Maybe they should change the parenthesis to curly or square brackets.
 * Eric: Sandro said they'd push back on anything that doesn't reflect how structures are represented elsewhere. We shouldn't push for a change in curly braces. (Or vertical bars "|").
 * Jesse: Perhaps changing "@" to something else. (Eric - that's one place where the semantics are the same).
 * Eric: do we want to come up with counter-proposal. My inclination is to leave as-is.

**ACTION**: Tom to report back to W3M the resolution of the CG.
**ACTION**: ericP to report back to the Data Shapes WG the resolution of the CG.

 * Eric: Holger wants to say that ShEx should change, as well. I think HL7 would object to that, as it's in wide use already. [wide consensus]
 * Tom: Can we clarify that this does not entail any changes to ShExC? [Yes]

## Implementations
Hokukahu is developing an interface for ShExMap:
 * Eric: We're taking a lot of the code from the fancy ShEx demo, upgrading to ShEx2, and using for schema mapping. This might be something fun to collaborate on.
 * Jesse: would help except I have a thesis and a baby coming due.

## Other "exciting" things
What are we excited to work on next:

* finish the API [Jesse: we're close to finishing ShEx 2.0 but API is the most important
* using ShEx for parsing RDF graphs ANTLR for RDF  [eric: When I consume ShExR, I validate it against the ShEx for ShExR, and that's how I build the ShEx structure]
* "GenJ/GenX/Gen*" [eric: uses parsing to build structures in JSON, XML or whatever]
  * [Jesse: Also aware of Serq, a SPARQL-like language that creates a table-like structure, keeping the original tree structure as it goes through the query]
  * [Eric: that would be "GenR", which I did in the fancy ShEx demo]
  * [Gregg: we need a more normative way of turning ShExR into ShExJ. Framing doesn't fully capture it.]
  * [Jesse: I think it would be good to list the things that can't be done with Framing]
  * [Gregg: it's possible that this recognition is intractable as something we want shapes embedded and sometimes we don't]
  * [Jesse: what if you extend your JSON-LD framing?]
  * [Gregg: I'm not sure how to approach this without going beyond the CG's scope for 1.1. ericP and I looked at GenJ as similar to JSON-LD framing. We could use GenJ]
* "ShExMap"
* "generate API for given format" [Jesse: GeneticBOL. I generate OWL property definitions from the ShEx definitions.
* "Protege plugin" [Eric: Matt H., inventor of Protege, is interested in this] [Jesse: I create an annotation property containing ShEx code and it works perfectly]

ACTION: Jesse to add Primer issue to describe recursion.
* [Jesse: we should have test cases for this, I created on that failed, but the paper descibes all sort of complexities that should have tests.]
* Jesse: I might have time to create some recursion tests.

## API -related Issues <https://www.w3.org/2001/sw/wiki/ShEx/API>

http://piratepad.net/OWxDRWlRIz
