# ShEx Telecon 2023-03-22

## Chair: Kat 
## Scribe: Labra

## Attendees: Labra, Seyed, John, Kat, Eric, Dani, Tom

## Community updates

* John: News from Wikidata: New datatype called entity schemas to link for example Human to its Entity schema: Reference: https://phabricator.wikimedia.org/T332139
* Seyed started postdoc position and he is doing experiments to simulate ShEx subsetting schemas to see if he can obtain better performance
* Jose: Started Rust impl of ShEx. Work in progress. https://github.com/weso/shex-rs
* Dani: he started to work in a new tool to extract shex from RDF content in Java. Still in a early stage though.
* Kat: Work on updates for the extends branch which are for the next version of ShEx and are based on updates from Iovka
* EricP: more release engineering on shex.js, released another version in response to a bug report
* Kat: 19th April first meeting of IEEE ShEx. Expect for 2hour meeting for that day. Reason because a lot of introductory material...
    * Schedule: rules about meeting attendance to remain in good status as member, participate in at least 2 meetings, a possible solution is to spread the official meetings to maintain voting status and have intermediate technical meetings. In the informal technical meetings we should not do voting...it would be acceptable to have voting through email. 
    * Kat talks about the possibility of having official meetings once every two months or something like that and keep the informal technical meetings every 2 weeks. Labra, Dani and Tom agree.

* Tom: No updates

## Topics to add to the agenda

* Dani asks about what we were talking in the f2f meeting about having Harold making a tutorial about PyShEx. Tom says there was some talk in a skype channel related to PyShEx. We added Dani to the channel. It may be a good idea to schedule a day with Harold.
* Dani asks about someone suggesting a new Python implementation of ShEx? It seems that could have been an idea that has been abandoned.
