# ShEx Telecon 2023-01-11

## Chair: Kat
## Scribe: Jose

## Attendees: Eric, Kat, Andra, Jose, Seyed

# 2 minutes updates:

ericP: Type-script-ified @shexjs/validator
... crazy ideas for how to implement ShExMap materialization within the ShEx Validator. Eric got some funding to an implementation trajectory. 
Kat: Can you point him to our discussion in gitter about: https://github.com/quicktype/quicktype- would be great if quicktype could output ShEx.

andra: wrapping up ShapeBooks, shared with NALT project.
... page is static (rendered as HTML), but regens when you re-run code.
... e.g. run daily to get a list of errors to address
... ShapeBook reads like a book: intro to RDF, intro to ShEx
... Started with WD Entity Schemas to generate snippits, e.g. link from Wikipedia article to taxon name.
... Considering meta shape where those are imported as ORs

Jose:
    - Working on Wikidata subsetting using ShEx
    - Invited to give a seminar talk at: https://www.sistedes.es/seminarios-sistedes 
    - Invited to [RDF Summit 4](https://github.com/dbcls/rdfsummit4/wiki) (Kyoto) 22-31 Jan
   
Kat: 
- Kat has been working on subsetting wikidata in Wikibase
- Is looking forward to receive the package from IEEE. To clarify what to do move from our current structure toward a required structure by IEEE. Waiting for more information.

- Jose: Kat what have you been using to create subsets? Kat: SPARQL queries. I need this to extract multilingual terms for FOODon terms. 
    - Foodon has no budget and is keen to include multilingual terms.

- Seyed:
    - No updates
    

Agenda:
- SWAT4LS
    - ShExMap tutorial at SWAT4LS
    - Subsetting
    - F2F
- Templates


## Notes

- Waiting for IEEE to send package with instructions
- Nice discussion about using copilot to take minutes?
    - Conclusion we should not do that. 


# Planning F2F 

- We need an arrangement channel
