# ShEx Telecon 2023-01-25

## Chair: Kat
## Scribe: ericP

## Attendees: Andra, Seyed, Kat, Eric, Claude, Labra

Chair: Please introduce the new person. Refering to Claude: at the university of Utah. Integrating clinical decision support for EHRs. I am interested in ShEx. Writing rules that are decoupled from e.g. FHIR so we don't have to migrate with FHIR.
Andra: saw a ShEx-related data steward job posting for Delta Tissue Project. 6 months with possiblity of extension into Microscopy. Remote job but need to live in Germany.

https://twitter.com/andrawaag/status/1618173269982707714

... In the middle of making a *new* ShEx renderer. Bit different but is a ShEx-to-dot (graphviz) visualizer. Will want to collab on symbology

EricP: Typescriptify ShExJs. Which made me also clean up some code. Worked with Claude to create a strategy to implement a JeNa implementation. 

Sayed: Jose and Andra and I are working on the subseting valuation paper. Submission date extended to mid-Feb.
... Evaluation use case is using ShEx to select items to dump.
... Paper has interesting discussion around subseting tools and data evolution.

Andra: GeneWiki survey queries showed a date when the GeneWiki schema changed.
Sayed: manifested a change in the number of found resources. e.g. number of genes reduced because of change in schema used.

Jose: Came to Japan for the RDF Summit.
... met with Nishad and Yasunori. Latter will submit a SWAT4LS  poster.

Claude: focusing on Jena-Shex. Added a Jena-ShExMap Module. am ramping up on the approach for matieralizatoin.

Kat: see agendum 1

## IEEE WG

Kat: met with IEEE WG [coordinator].
... in order to start our WG work, we need to:

### Notification

IEEE needs 4 weeks+ of advance notice for first ShEx IEEE WG meeting in order to circulate within WG.
First op is 8 March, next 22 March. Need to be deliberte about this.

Andra: PROPOSE 22 March to revisit if we change our mind after reviewing the Policies and Procedures.
APPROVED

### voting member

IEEE has attendence requires for voting, e.g 2 of last 4 meetings. folks can participate without voting. Decide that in the 1st meeting. Quorum is more than half of the voting members. Voting members will vote during the balloting process.

### 1st meeting

We need to either adopt the Policies and Procedures in the 1st meeting or propose an alternative.

IEEE uses WebEx (not Discord). We are required to use the IEEE list serve.

In our 1st meeting, our IEEE liason will attend to keep us honest.

### all meetings

8 slides about patent policy & copyright policy that we need to sign off on at every meeting.

Need to record names and affiliations of attendees. these must align a member list.

VOTE: 
22 March is proposed, everyone has until our next ShEx meeting (8 Feb)  to review the Policies & Procedures document and we will decide in our next CG meeting what day to tell IEEE our first meeting will be.
