# ShEx Telecon 2023-03-08

## Chair: Kat    
## Scribe: all

## Attendees: ericP, Tom, Andra, John, Kat


* Andra: updated ShExViz, now supports cardinality
    * Has a meeting with 
* ericP: Updated ShExjs
* Tom: Getting back in touch with Harold would be a good idea to set up time to meet about the PyShEx tutorial

### CG Closure notice from W3C
* Kat: got email saying that the W3C would close the ShExCG barring evidence of action.
... I replied with pointers to mailing list, github and minutes
... reply said this was accepted; CG will not be closed down

### IEEE WG
* Kat: Communicated desire to start IEEE WG 2023-04-19 with Johnathan's replacement.
... Johnathan is back but hasn't replied yet. Will follow-up.
* John: is the meeting open?
* Kat: yes. on that day you have to decide whether to be a voting member.
* Andra: Lydia Pincer would like Wikidata to be a member, but can't make every meeting.
... She can find someone else who's likely to have consistent availability to be a voting member.
* Andra: we should build an invitation list including folks outside of this CG.
... GoGlam, Free University, Berlin Botanical Garden
* Kat: happy to invite anyone
* Andra: send on wikidata list

### JetBrains ShExC plugin
* Andra: I have a call with JetBrains on Friday.
... I use it a lot with PyCharm and GitHub co-pilot
