# ShEx Telecon 2023-02-22

## Chair: EricP
## Scribe: Labra

## Attendees: Eric, Seyed, Andra, Labra, Kat, Paul


* Andra: Working on ShEx viz https://pypi.org/project/shexviz/. Released lib on PyPi.
* ... takes a shape expr and renders a dot diagram
* ... needed for ag schemas and delta tissue
* ... done for cotton and breast cancer shapes
* ... revisiting [ShExML](http://shexml.herminiogarcia.com/spec/) for documenting mappings between primary data and RDF. 
* Kat: Working with ericP to add text that Iovka wrote related to EXTENDS into the spec. Here's the [diff](https://pr-preview.s3.amazonaws.com/shexSpec/spec/58/10a38f0...b3835bc.html.
* ericP: had a great ShEx F2F. highly directed discussions
* ... Iovka, Claude and I will work on next version of Jena-ShEx.
* ... I should talk to Andy Seaborne about that plan
* ... Did a clinical data and rules tutorial at SWAT4LS featuring ShExMap
* ... FHIR RDF is about to is about to go to ballot, including the ShEx which uses EXTENDS.
* Labra: Participated in ShEx F2f and gave tutorial at SWAT4HCLS: [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/10bVN0e5wFSKxbi8l6KCvfGxRSkWLi1eXmeIaY4Szo7w/edit?usp=sharing)
* ...I'm planning to implement a new version of ShEx in RUST
* Paul Braun from Natural History in Luxumborg; work in digitization of natural history collections, mostly in wikidata
* Sayed: submitted subsetting paper 14 Feb to SemWeb Journal
* ... will start post-doc in Edinborgh
* ... hope to establish a link between data engineering folks and subsetting. Question about SÅ‚awek Staworko in Edinbour

## Subsettting

* Andra: where do we go next? Keep BioHackathon announcements on our radar. What do we want to accomplish?
* Labra: plan to continue with a student.
* ... will code it in RUST.
* ... subset wikidata and RDF in general, e.g. UniProt
* Andra: extracted taxa this weekend  and plans to extract moths and asked if wsub

## First WG meeting date

* Eric: We need to pick a date for our first meeting. We need to give them 8 weeks notice, so currently that puts us at April 12 (feel free to double-check my week counting).
We then need to communicate the date to IEEE.
* Crucial:
Eric, Kat, Claude, Jose, Iovka, Seyed, Andra, Tom
* 19th april as date for IEEE meeting
* From Policies & procedures doc: "Voting membership shall be granted, upon request, to those participants attending the first meeting of a newly chartered Working Group."

* PyShEx: Eric: rebuilt Python from scratch
* Talk with Josh
