# ShEx Telecon 2023-04-05

## Chair: Kat 
## Scribe: Dani

## Attendees: Kat, Tom, Dani, Seyed, Eric


## Community updates

* Dani: sheXer is getting some new features.


* Seyed: he is wonrking on Wikidata subsests using ShEx

* Kat: email forwarded about IEEE's ShEx first meeting. All ateendees received it and already signed for the event.

* Eric: discussion on using ShEx or SHACL in SOLID. Working with Andra introducing ShEx in a medical project. 

## Ongoing discussions

* Tom: he asks about news on the maintenance of PyShex. No updates so far.
* Kat: she asks Tom to initiate activity on PyShex asking Harold. Tom agrees.

## Topics to add to the agenda

* Eric: he mentions that maybe we need to have something prepared to present during the IEEE event. Eric says that he's ready to make such presentation.
    * shex.next
    * test suite
    * implementation status

* Eric: do we need to agree on some voting during the IEEE meeting? Such as meeting frequency
* Kat: she mentioned we agreed on looking for not so frequent official meetings, even if we keep doing frequent technical meetings every 2 weeks in a non-official way. This way, people who can't commit to attend every meeting can still mantain her voting status.We also will decide as a group, probably in the first/second meeting, on official WG meeting frequency. Also, official IEEE meeting will require more burocrathy activity. unlike our usual unofficial meetings.

* Eric: we may be able to use the ongoing document written with Iovka as a starting point on IEEE meeting. Not sure if it is going to be ready. We could use the current one if it is not.
