# ShEx CG Meeting 2022-02-02

Chair: Andra

Attendees: Tom, Kat, Labra, Andra, Seyed, ericP
    
Scribe: Kat

## Community Updates

* ericP: Working on spec

* Kat: Assisting with spec

* Labra: My report is that my imlpementation now passes most of the tests except 11 more or less...but I detected were is the error 
* Andra: Biohackathon subsets. Did the ontology UBERON work go anywhere?
* ericP: Haven't done anything recently. But I need to.
* Andra: Everyone now experimenting with subsets generating from the same dump. Big issue can't rely on P31 instance of for extracting the subsets. I need each of. I understand it is not supported.
* Labra: It is possible, but it is a matter of time prioritization. Trying to finish EXTENDS.
* Andra: Urgent need for chemicals subset. I have a work around. KGTK folks are pushing back. 

## EXTENDS
* ericP: Hoping to get Labra's feedback on my documentation. Two versions of the EXTENDS spec. If you go to shex.io there is a new entry on the left-hand side for upcoming specs. If you follow the shex spec link and go to 5.2 you can see how I had defined this with "effective expression". I built an each of - required that I add a structural requirement (5.7.4) that wasn't really needed. Rethought this- visible from "with new satifies parameter" link on shex.io. Optional neighborhood only used during recusion. If you then go to 5.5.2 you will see issue text that points to alternative definition. Defines nei the effective neighborhood. What that means is there is no longer a requirement that you only use shapeAnd. Now you partition just has to satisfy that shape. More completely defined. Labra- any feedback?
* Labra: The new idea is that you added a new param for the local neighborhood for extends. That is what I am doing in my impl. What I do is create all possible partitions of the neighborhood and try to validate each of them. I need to look at the details, but sounds good so far.
* ericP: I had to change machables is empty or ext is empty and I had to change closed is false.
* Labra: Did you work on the definition of the inheritance graph. 
* ericP: No inheritance graph, but I have a list of exts. Here are all the triple constraints that are in my parents. 
* Labra: I need the inheritance graph for abstract validation. How do you do that?
* ericP: satisfies is the way we did the recursion. in the def of satisfied I updated the definition to get the non-abstract dependents.
* Labra: But if you have AND they should also be there, right?
* ericP: I think we account for the ANDs. 
* Labra: I think this is what is failing in my impl right now. I had been using inheritance graph. Things with ANDs now pass. 
* ericP: There are tests that detect that.
* Labra: Nice- are you planning to merge that? For me it is OK. I call it 'local neighborhood'.
* ericP: I will write to Iovka.
* Seyed: Regarding KGTK, I am against making the tests more complicated. We recognize that the test is simple and it is true that grep could handle this. But what matters is creating a simple use case that all tools can handle and is easy for audiences can understand. Our goal is to compare and contrast tool functionality. 
* Andra: I agree with you. Egon said ShEx is more fit for purpose than YAML- there is a bias to get tree-shaped subsets. ShEx aligns with the graph structure. That argument could help. We are no longer able to extract the genewiki subset from Wikidata. In Wikidata the ontological relations are noisy/messy. In SPARQL examples P31, P279 plus several external identifiers. I am confident that we have EACH OF we can replicate this. The subset is parsed as JSON which then gets transformed into RDF which requires access to the API. 
* Seyed: Does the JSON-RDF conversion use another tool? 
* Andra: WDtoolkit in java. Wikidata RDF has more data than JSON. 
* ericP: Is there a cacheing opportunity there?
* Andra: Haven't looked into it yet.
* ericP: log the URLs that the API is hitting and change the code to reuse those.
* Andra: Where do we stand wrt the paper?
* Seyed: I think that these challenges are something that we need to discuss in the paper. We want to describe the performance of the tools. 

