## Meeting May 25, 2022
## Chair: Andra
### Attendees: Labra, Kat, Seyed, Andra, ericP, Tom
### Scribe: Kat

## Notes
* Labra: A student worked on RDF Shape to support streams. Apache Kafka streams. Sensor data streaming from Apache Kafka. I could invite him to present 9 June.
* ericP: With JSON-LD that could also validate streaming JSON. Would need another box for @context.
* Labra: I have been teaching ShEx to masters students. 
* Seyed: Subsetting work. Evaluating different subsetting tools. Andra can you share command line instructions.
* Andra: I will dig that up.
* Kat: Working with Eric on adding examples to the Primer. There is a PR you can take a look at.
* Tom: Building out documentation for DC-TAP. Nishad has been helping me to translate from DC-TAP into ShEx. Documentation: https://tap2shex.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
* ericP: Worked on nested writer. If a triple is validated two different ways it ends up rendered twice, had to track down the bug. Nested writer takes ShEx valdiation output to generate pretty turtle. Added the ability to use collections. Jose approved PRs that fix ordering issues in the original test suite. We were missing RDF collection support. I hadn't updated tests to make sure of that. There were some ordering issues in ShExR tests. That needs to get replicated for the Extends branch, then Extends will be ready to merge to main. Jose and I discussed negative round trip tests.
* Kat: Can I get an update about the tryit links for the spec.
* Jose: I asked the student working on RDFShape to change them. I think he changed them. Shape-Map vs ShapeMap. 
* ericP: In the manifest you can use URLs we should stadardize the spellings of the parameters. 
* Andra: I shared a link in the chat about a presentation at the Royal Library in the Netherlands. Go to slide #5. They are considering hiring teachers of ShEx for next year. We may need a ShEx by example deck.
* Jose: I have materials from past tutorials.
* Andra: I need to fix the w3c page with the meeting schedule. I updated the agendas to add the discord link rather than the zoom link. Samuel Klein reached out about ShEx becoming a IEEE standard by forming a Project Request study group.
* ericP: Other groups in IEEE could make use of ShEx, so if we form this group it could help others. 
* Jose: What other standards does IEEE host?
* Andra: I will reply to Sam with others ccd.
* Jose: Is there a problem with w3c CG and IEEE group existing at the same time.
* ericP: We can ask IEEE people.
* Seyed: Do future developers need this to be a standard?
* ericP: That was an issue when IETF and w3c worked together on digital signatures. Had language saying that standards are identical.
