# Minutes ShExCG 2022-12-07
## Participants: Andra, Kat, Tom, Eric, Labra



* Tom: my COVID project is to get back to work on DCTap.
 ... DCTapPython does consistency checks
... a 2nd project, TapShEx, imports DCTapPython and generates ShEx
... playing with intersphynx to make TapShex docs import DCTap docs.
... I took ShEx Primer examples into the TapShEx test directory so there are DCTap CSVs which emit the ShEx Primer examples.

* [Intersphinx](https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/guides/intersphinx.html)

* Andra: Josh Moore is working on LinkML. He wrote convertor from DCTap to LinkML.

* Eric: Working on ShExmap extension in Jena, have to a pull request. 
* Eric: Jena released with Semantic Actions


* Kat: Andra and I attended Wikidata Entity Schema Bug Triage Hour.
... On Dec 2, IEEE approved the PAR (Project Authorization Request) for a ShEx WG.
... .. feedback was all editorial, e.g. write out Shape Expressions after first reference to "ShEx"

* Tom: any changes to the CG?
* ericP: I don't think so, apart from a bit more ceremony around decisions.
* Andra: will allow us to say "ShEx is a standard"

* Andra: at Wikidata Entity Schema bug triage hour, folks asked for a YouTube tutorial on YASHE.
... ericP and I are going working with a Rare Diseases project and need a tool to convert from ShEx to SHACL.
* Jose: There are semantic differences, but if you steer away from them, I have a tool that converts.
... you can also author flat shapes in DCTap.uld lose some expressivity but it should meet the 80/20 rule.

* Jose: I'll be teaching an intro do databses to business folks. Will be teaching ShEx and SPARQL.
