# Minutes ShExCG 2022-11-23
Participants: Andra, Jose, Kat, Tom, Seyed, eric

## Updates
* Jose: Participated in the biohackathon two weeks ago, where he used ShEx. Jose has [the wdsub tool](https://github.com/weso/wdsub) that create subsets. We used [thes schemas](https://github.com/kg-subsetting/biohackathon2022/tree/main/examples/ShEx)
* Jose: Also met f2f with Eric. Where they discussed templates and ShexMap. On interesting issues is that that the semantics of ShExMaps are a challenge. He will work on those challenges. 
* Job offer: https://www.weso.es/vacancies/2022_11_JobOffer.pdf
* Eric: Eric met with Jose and also worked with claude in Paris where they worked Claude Nanjo who is clinical informatic. Where they worked on the jena implementation of shexmaps. Andy Sheaborne is pestering Eric for moving this forward to have it included in the next release
* Eric: Working on error reporting in ShExJS. 
* Kat: IEEE standards meeting is meeting on Dec 2th. Where the proposal to accept for the ShEx workshop as part of their set of standards. Within IEEE framework provides insight. Currently, 3 yes, and one conditional. 
   * Tom Does that mean we get the infrastructure to work as a group. Kat: don't know
   * 
* Tom: looking forward to have some public face on a project related with shEx
* Seyed: Has also participated in the biohackathon...and managed to solve a problem of counting wikdata items on the subsets.
* Andra: Also worked at the biohackaton with the wdsub tool. Running the tool to create a subset of taxon...Need to traverse the graph to have all related items. Wrote the ShEx that includes all instances or identifiers related with
    * Job offer or internship related with ShEx and maybe ShExML
    * Discussion about project related with creating shapes
        * ShEx foundation
            * Belgium or french foundation
            * Spain?...FUO (Foundation University of Oviedo) possibility to do something like that?
                * Jose: Will ask about possibilities
        * Approaches to create shapes
            * DC-TAP
            * ShEx and converter
