# ShEx CG Meeting 2022-03-02

Chair: Andra

Attendees: ericP, Andra, Kat, Seyed, Labra, Andy, Tom
    
Scribe: Kat

## Community Updates

* Seyed: Working on reference assesment framework. Shex component- would like feedback from group. Subsets: sampling Wikidata.
* Andra: Subsetting: trying to run ShEx Slurper. Debugging with Eric.
* ericP: Justin was asking me if we could get shexpath into Solid.
* Andy: Experimental stuff is hard to indtegrate, maybe through an extension which can be evoloved on its own timeline.
* Labra: Able to pass all ShEx + Extends tests with my implementation. More confident that extends is working. Test suite is very detailed. 
* ericP: Goal is that impls wouldn't have to have that many tests of their own.

## Extends
* ericP: Do you feel like the spec adequately reflects the new feature?
* Labra: I checked the spec. Main concepts all represented in the spec. Found a minor typo.
* ericP: Would be great to get more feedback on spec from other implementors.
* Labra: Convert ShEx+ extends to plain ShEx so that it would be backwards compatible. 
* ericP: Link to new version of extends: http://shex.io/extends-new-param/#satisfies
... Some shape extends another shape. When doing partition to the shape that extends base shape send partition to shape. Ignores EXTRA and CLOSED in base shape. 
* Andy: How does it work with subclass relationships?
* ericP: Doesn't follow rdfs inferences. 
* Andy: If I say something is type:user it will fail type:person.
* ericP: That is true. That is kind of a problem. It would be nice to figure out a way to do this that made it so good semwab parctices are reinforced. 
* Andy: Probably don't want to go too far down the rdfs path.
* ericP: Good point. 
... We have two competing manifest formats. One inherited from SPARQL test suite. Another manifest format several of us are using that allows us to pull together sets of examples. 
... Example of second type: https://shex.io/webapps/shex.js/doc/shex-simple?manifestURL=../examples/manifest.json
... ends up being useful as presenting a set of validations you want a tool to run. It is a json document that looks like: https://shex.io/webapps/shex.js/examples/manifest.json
... this kind of manifest is more directly usable by tooling. 
... Do we want to maintain both of these? Or do we want to update the script that generates manifests could generate both types. 
* Andy: We use the .ttl manifest type.
* ericP: Does that work for you if we just generate both.
* Andy: Might be better to split the spaces for the two different manifests.
* ericP: Because one format is basically a subset of the other, it might be nice not to separate them so people don't have to code for both. 
* Andy: What about 3rd party reuses- how many people would be impacted?
* ericP: Small number of people would be impacted.
* Labra: Use of status- in .ttl means approved or not in .json status means does it conform or not. Will you keep .ttl the same? Which will you change.
* ericP: Make .ttl somewhat redundant. schemaLabel dataLabel and status are redudant 
* Labra: Who is going to be impacted and who wants to change what. One thing I was thinking is maybe we should add a test suite for the ShapeMaps- for which we would want the .json manifest format.
* ericP: Makes sense.
* Andy: If you change things the message you could send is that "ShEx isn't stable". Granted, this is the test suite.
* ericP: Yeah, an appearance issue.
... Maybe maintain the .ttl and emit 2 .json files. 
* Labra: Not good to send the message that ShEx isn't stable. 
* ericP: I need a name for the 2nd type of manifest.

## Reference Assesment Framework ShEx component
* Seyed: Metric 'schema completeness of references'. Benefit of metric- could motivate WD editors to add reference schemas to E namespace. Goal is to try to discover how many groups have established references schemas. 
* Labra: You want to check how many items have this reference structure?
* Seyed: Within a specific subset. Extract classes of instances and extract references. 
* Labra: A brute force solution would be to get all data and check for conformance, right?
* Seyed: Yes, my problem is that classes are not mentioned. 
* Labra: You are interested in the pr:248 and not the value space, correct? We do not yet have a tool to do that, but creating such a tool is possible. Is that what you want?
* Seyed: I'm asking if there is already an existing tool. 
* Labra: Using WDSub it is possible to create very plain subsets without references, etc. So I could implement this in WDSub. 
