# ShEx CG Meeting 2022-06-08

Chair: Andra

Attendees: Andra, Tom, Kat, Iovka, Seyed, Labra, ericP

Scribe: Kat

## IEEE 
Jose: How representatitive is IEEE as a standards organization?
Andra: Are there alternatives? Are we happy to continue how we are?
Jose: If we go forward with IEEE, I think we should maintain the W3C CG. Are there any standards that are both IEEE and W3C?
Tom: I don't know of any.
Jose: Are we interested in writing the PAR document?
Tom: Is there any issue with the ShExR URIs being W3C URIs?
ericP: I bet it would be ok to keep them as they are.

## Community Updates
ericP: I just updated the JSG documentation. There is a bunch of stuff in shex/test that Jose and I will look at on Friday. We need someone to take over Harold's implementation. 
Tom: Did Harold officially retire?
ericP: Yes, he retired.
Iovka: I am getting updated by coming here. I want to complete the Java implementation of Extends.
Seyed: Working on references in subsets of Wikidata. The processing time is very high for large subsets. Some blank nodes to account for.
Andra: Can you use a different implementation?
Seyed: My code is in Python which is why I went for PyShEx. I tried ShEx.js- it stops in the middle of the process in the large subsets.
Andra: I'm writing new schemas for patient data. I'm using PyCharm's plugin. 
Tom: What is the name of the plugin?
Andra: IntelliJ RDF-SPARQL. ShExC is a supported format. Prefix resolution is very helpful.
