# ShEx CG Meeting 2022-03-16

Chair: Andra

Attendees: Kat, ericP, Seyed, Labra, Andra
    
Scribe: Kat

## Community Updates
* Labra: Preparing an overview talk for Data Reuse Days about Wikidata subsetting
* ericP: Mayo Clinic funding for developer for ShExMap Java implementation. 
* Labra: Sounds very good. Do you have the person yet?
* ericP: We don't have a programmer yet.
* Kat: iPres 2022 paper with section about ShEx schemas in the E namespace in a Wikibase
* ericP: AMIA presentation mapping clinical data from one format to another using ShExMap. Generating JSON-LD @contexts from an external schema. I took the schema, pased it, stransformed it into ShEx, and then turns the ShEx into JSON-LD @contexts. 
* Labra: A student working on improvements to RDFShape. Upcoming talk about data shapes next Thursday. http://www.lotico.com/index.php/Data_Shapes
* ericP: We should have a story about EXTENDS. 
* Labra: Is it the plan that ShEx 2.2 will include EXTENDS?
* ericP: We have 2 interoperable impls that pass the test suite.
* Andra: WDShEx- deriviative and other flat file versions of ShEx.
* Labra: more a research prototype than a full language.
* Andra: maybe not for 2.2 but how should we manage these- Tom's Nishad's, John Samuel's.
* Labra: ShEx was more like a language framework- you could have different extensions- one one side it is good to have a standard lang with solid test suite, on the other hand it is also good to have dialects. 
* Andra: I like the term dialect. Exactly how to present these tools in a table or something would be nice. 
* ericP: Have to be careful to state ShEx itself is stable or backwrd compatible. The representations haven't changed in a couple of years, just making backward compatible extensions to them.
* Labra: Tom's project is a subset of ShEx. But in WDShEx we accommodate qualifiers and references, so it has to be translated to ShEx, but it isn't fully compatible with ShEx. 
* Andra: Derivative?
* Labra: Inspired by?
* Andra: Formal language for Wikidata graphs?
* Seyed: Wrote a script https://github.com/seyedahbr/RQSSFramework/blob/main/RQSSFramework/EntitySchemaExtractor.py extracts classes for schemas. 
* Andra: Last week I was in Romania working on alien species. Montserrat and Cayman Islands- wanted to figure out which collectors collected what- parachute scientists vs local scientists. I used ShExer to extract a schema for a collector being active on either of those islands. ShExer result was very helpful. Getting from ShExer to schema still needs human work. Tonight we have a meeting about subsets on Wikidata. Some queries still time out. 
* ericP: Did you get a chance to try the pathological data in ShExScala?
* Andra: Tried in WikiShape. Would it be possible to separate out the results into two separate tar files- one for entities that conform and which do not conform.
* ericP: For entities that do not conform- it is less clear what parts of the graph to grab for entities that don't conform.
