# ShEx CG Meeting 2022-06-22
# ShEx CG Meeting 2022-06-22

Chair: Andra

Attendees: Tom, Andra, Seyed, Iovka, ericP, Kat

Scribe: Kat

## Community Updates
* ericP: Labra and I discussed shexDecls on shapes in ShExJ. In favor if issue #50
https://github.com/shexSpec/spec/issues/50
Looked at having annotation on node constraints with Andra. Also looked at value set values, verified it was possible. It makes sense to make this change at the same time change issue 50.
* Iovka: Can you repeat shapeDecls discussion?
* ericP: shapeDecls allows us to add additional labels for nested shapes
* Iovka: Will shapeDecls replace labels everywhere?
* ericP: yes
* Andra: I'm working on schemas for 3 disease domains. Participants want to see visualizations. I looked at shapeForms. These forms align with the forms from the data providers. But with value sets, we need to extend the annotations to work for value sets. 
* ericP: Asked some people using shexjs for feedback on us breaking things- they said that it would be fine, can use typescript to quickly repair.
* Iovka: Finished implementation of EXTENDS.
* Andra: How to manage the phase when collaborators are intimidated by schema reading.
* ericP: Does the intelliJ plug in help with that at all?
* Andra: Plugin helps when you want to write schemas and you already know ShEx.
* Seyed: Data Quality Days- Seyed will use 10-15 to present about references
* Iovka: 
```
<A> { <p> @<X1> }
<B> EXTRA <p> EXTENDS @<A> { <p> @<X2> }
<X1> { <q> [1] }
<X2> { <q> [2] }

<n> <p> <x1>, <x2>, <xx1>.
<x1> <q> 1.
<xx1> <q> 1.
<x2> <q> 2.
```
Are EXTRAs applicable to the EXTENDed shape?
Can xx1 go into EXTRA <p>?
* ericP: I would expect to fail that based on a cardinality failure. Trying to satisfy <p> @<X1>.
* Iovka: I was able to add disjunction with extension, but not everywhere.
:A CLOSED { :p [2] }
:B EXTENDS @:A {} OR {:p [3]}
<n> <p> 3. # If :B is considered as subclass of :A, then validating <n> against :A would succeed
This I am expecting to not be allowed
* ericP: There are a few ways this would not be allowed. Prohibited = static violation or ignored when looking for derivations of B.
* Iovka: I would say the latter. 
* Iovka: 
<C> EXTENDS (@<A> OR @<B>) {}
What kind of expressions would we like to extend? For defining the semantics, this is problematic.
* ericP: reason we don't include derived classes w OR when validating derived classes, we want to avoid validating the side of it where the base class is not satisfied.
What about:
    
:A CLOSED { :p [2] }
:B EXTENDS @:A {:q [4]} OR {:p [3]}

<n> <p> 2; <q> 4.
 Would this satisfy A by virtue of EXTENSION.
 * Iovka: Consider the disjunction normal form. I don't think this complexity is useful?
 * ericP: It makes sense given that this would be true without the OR, it is strange to have the Or-ing of something make it not true anymore.
 How about:
:A CLOSED { :p [2] }
:B ( (EXTENDS @:A {:q [4]}) OR ({:p [3]}) AND { :p [2] } )

<n> <p> 2; <q> 4.
* Iovka: If you extend only one label this is not a problem. 
* ericP: DNF of :B
:B ( EXTENDS @:A {:q [4]} ) AND { :p [2] } )   OR   ( {:p [3]} AND { :p [2] } )
* Iovka:
    
AND
- OR
  - extends @A {q [4]}
  - {p [3]}
- {p [2]} 
* ericP: I'm concerned about the notion of adding the OR changing the solution.
* Iovka: When you validate you consider all these disjunctions separately.
